“We don’t have preset menus, or really plan ahead. We drive to Maine a couple days in advance with salt, olive oil, butter, a pig, knives and, oh yeah, wine,” says Tom Mylan of the Meat Hook, Brooklyn’s buzziest butcher shop. “When we arrive on the coast, we look at what’s fresh and plentiful, and take it from there.”Clearly, this is not your typical epicurean affair.Don’t expect to get formally wined and dined, or waited on hand and foot. Do, however, be prepared to roll up your sleeves and engage in boisterous lessons alongside cooks at the top of their culinary game. Workshops and demonstrations include pig butchering, chicken slaughtering, charcuterie, cheese making, pickling and pie making. The chef Dennis Spina, from Roebling Tea Room, and the chef Millicent Souris are on site to prepare lunches and dinners with all that has been foraged, caught and slaughtered. Mark Firth, who formerly owned Diner and Marlow & Sons, is on deck to keep wine flowing and spirits high.From the first night’s welcoming at Three Tides Brewery, which Mylan calls “the coolest bar in the world,” to the final evening’s oceanside lobster boil, the Maine Event aims to be all that we want from a summer escape: pure, delicious, unadulterated fun.Did we mention the booze-fueled BB gun shooting contest?The Maine Event costs $1,000 per person, which includes all meals, drinks (provided by Brooklyn’s Vine Wine) and scheduled activities. Call (207) 230-0966 or e-mail annemarie@saltwaterfarm.com for reservations.The Scarfacity appealed to hip-hop artists immediately. “I saw it the year it came out,” Raekwon, the Wu-Tang Clan rapper, wrote in an e-mail.  “I was a young boy chilling in the movie theatre mesmerized by the story. I had never seen the bad guy become the hero in my eyes. Scarface definitely changed my perspective and has influenced my music.”The style and catchphrases of Mr. Pacino’s Tony Montana proved irresistible.  “I appreciated that Tony was loyal to family, very ambitious and wasn’t taking” dirt “from anyone,” the young Brooklyn rapper Red Café said, using an earthier term. “Yet, he still remained suave and confident at all times.”It was “a world for the fly and flashy,” he added approvingly in an e-mail. “Where money buys you a seat above the law.”Christopher Alford, 32, a security guard at Mount Sinai Medical Center, first saw it with some older cousins when he was 12 or 13,  growing up in Bedford-Stuyvestant, Brooklyn, and estimated that he’d watched it 100 times since. “I love the grind from poverty to success,” he said. “I take every negative and put a positive in it. They say drugs is what made ‘Scarface,’ but it was his drive and ambition.”Mr. Alford, who brought a date to the screening, added that throughout his life, he’d found an inspirational message in the movie. “Not selling drugs – that’s not what I wanted to do,” he said. But whatever he does, “I’m putting my mind and my heart into it, being an overachiever.” (He noted that he drove the same car, a Mercedes-Benz S550, as a lot of the doctors at the hospital. “I work hard,” he said. “I pull a lot of doubles.”)Yuriy Novoselov, a Ukranian living in Brooklyn, also found that “Scarface,” his favorite movie, provided valuable life lessons. “The reason why I like it, it’s about immigrants who start from the bottom, get to the top,” Mr. Novoselov, 37, a software engineer turned D.J., said. “I’m an immigrant also. I think he lived the American dream.”Mr. Novoselov brushed aside criticisms that the movie – which nearly received an X rating when it came out – might be a touch on the violent side. “I like the fact that when it came out, the critics abused it,” he said. “It was violent for ’83, when it came out. Current films are even worse. It’s not violent.” He mimicked a machine gun shooting, and laughed.He wasn’t worried that his date, Vera Demetityeva, 24, a student who had never seen the movie, might not like it. “Everybody likes it,” he said. “It’s a classic.”What do you think? Is “Scarface” an aspirational story of immigrant ambition, or is it a cautionary tale about unfettered greed and the perils of getting high from your own supply? Is it a classic, or a so-bad-it’s-good cult movie?Leave your thoughts in the comments.FollowAdvertisementThe Scarfacity appealed to hip-hop artists immediately. “I saw it the year it came out,” Raekwon, the Wu-Tang Clan rapper, wrote in an e-mail.  “I was a young boy chilling in the movie theatre mesmerized by the story. I had never seen the bad guy become the hero in my eyes. Scarface definitely changed my perspective and has influenced my music.”The style and catchphrases of Mr. Pacino’s Tony Montana proved irresistible.  “I appreciated that Tony was loyal to family, very ambitious and wasn’t taking” dirt “from anyone,” the young Brooklyn rapper Red Café said, using an earthier term. “Yet, he still remained suave and confident at all times.”It was “a world for the fly and flashy,” he added approvingly in an e-mail. “Where money buys you a seat above the law.”Christopher Alford, 32, a security guard at Mount Sinai Medical Center, first saw it with some older cousins when he was 12 or 13,  growing up in Bedford-Stuyvestant, Brooklyn, and estimated that he’d watched it 100 times since. “I love the grind from poverty to success,” he said. “I take every negative and put a positive in it. They say drugs is what made ‘Scarface,’ but it was his drive and ambition.”Mr. Alford, who brought a date to the screening, added that throughout his life, he’d found an inspirational message in the movie. “Not selling drugs – that’s not what I wanted to do,” he said. But whatever he does, “I’m putting my mind and my heart into it, being an overachiever.” (He noted that he drove the same car, a Mercedes-Benz S550, as a lot of the doctors at the hospital. “I work hard,” he said. “I pull a lot of doubles.”)Yuriy Novoselov, a Ukranian living in Brooklyn, also found that “Scarface,” his favorite movie, provided valuable life lessons. “The reason why I like it, it’s about immigrants who start from the bottom, get to the top,” Mr. Novoselov, 37, a software engineer turned D.J., said. “I’m an immigrant also. I think he lived the American dream.”Mr. Novoselov brushed aside criticisms that the movie – which nearly received an X rating when it came out – might be a touch on the violent side. “I like the fact that when it came out, the critics abused it,” he said. “It was violent for ’83, when it came out. Current films are even worse. It’s not violent.” He mimicked a machine gun shooting, and laughed.He wasn’t worried that his date, Vera Demetityeva, 24, a student who had never seen the movie, might not like it. “Everybody likes it,” he said. “It’s a classic.”What do you think? Is “Scarface” an aspirational story of immigrant ambition, or is it a cautionary tale about unfettered greed and the perils of getting high from your own supply? Is it a classic, or a so-bad-it’s-good cult movie?Leave your thoughts in the comments.FollowAdvertisementAdvertisementAnd so Ms. Vincent and her band, the Rage, took the stage anyway, instruments on loan for everyone except Ms. Vincent, whose hands looked agitated not wrapped around her mandolin.This made for a night that was less a concert than a metamorphosis, the band shifting through phases from flustered and making do to slick and professional as, over the course of the evening, fortune swung back its way.AdvertisementAdvertisementThat kind of soft balladry, which Ms. Vincent excels at, was de rigueur in Nashville as she was shuttling between bluegrass labels and country major labels in the 1990s. She’s one of the few singers unafraid to import those values into bluegrass, which has long had an ambivalent relationship with gloss.Ms. Vincent is a stronger musician than she is a vocalist, which meant she was notably hobbled during the early part of this show, though the Rage  — Mr. Harris;  Aaron McDaris, who plays banjo; the guitarist Ben Helson; and the fiddler Hunter Berry  — cobbled together something approximating its usual sound.A few songs into the night, a mandolin materialized, courtesy of an audience member; it was his daughter’s, he said, and he got it from the car. “Bluegrass Express,” which the band played next, was the first time all night that the band felt whole.But soon all sense of formality was breaking down. Ms. Vincent tried her best to be cheerful, asking audience members to take pictures and e-mail them to her, so she could show her manager the absurd sight of her band playing a show dressed so casually.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“He’s gonna have a heart attack,” she said. “Make sure they can see the shorts.”A few drinks made their way from audience members up to the stage. As Ms. Vincent sipped one, a fan shouted, “Don’t tell Martha White!” (That’s the wholesome baked-goods company that sponsors Ms. Vincent, and whose logo adorns her tour bus.)After about 45 minutes, the bus driver appeared in the center of the room  — he was unhurt  — and a few minutes later, instruments began to appear onstage. Mr. Harris’s loaner bass was swapped for his upright, which he pulled from a padded red sleeve. Ms. Vincent happily began playing her own mandolin, pulled from a glittery pink case.But there was still something getting under Ms. Vincent’s skin. A couple of songs later, as Mr. Berry and Mr. Helson worked through a caffeinated instrumental, she disappeared backstage. Two minutes later she was back, dressed in her stage outfit, a little black dress, just in time for “A Little at a Time.”The band still wasn’t quite whole  — Mr. Helson was still playing his borrowed  acoustic guitar, so Ms. Vincent said they’d play the song “without the squealy part, the whammy bar.” She turned to Mr. Helson: “No whammy tonight.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementGo to Home Page »AdvertisementBAGHDAD — An 8-year-old Iraqi girl was killed Saturday and several other civilians were wounded when gunfire from an American military convoy struck a crowd of Shiite pilgrims traveling to the holy city of Karbala, witnesses and Iraqi officials said.The shooting came at a delicate time for American forces in Iraq, after a security agreement between the United States and Iraq set new ground rules that greatly limit American military actions. When American forces are operating outside their bases, the agreement requires them to consult directly with their Iraqi counterparts.Iraqi officials have said that the Americans violated the agreement twice in recent weeks by attacking Iraqi criminal suspects without consulting Iraqi forces.AdvertisementThe shooting on Saturday seemed to fall into another category, occurring while the Americans were on an official mission guarding a supply convoy but were not pursuing any Iraqi suspects. While condemned by local officials, it drew a surprisingly muted public response, perhaps a reflection of how rare American military actions are in that part of Iraq.AdvertisementAlthough violence has diminished greatly across the country, there were other scattered attacks over the weekend, highlighting the fragility of the security gains.A bomb in northern Baghdad early Sunday morning killed two people and wounded 11 others as they began their pilgrimage to Karbala, Iraqi officials said. Another explosive device placed in a vehicle in the center of Baghdad wounded two people.It was unclear how the shooting on Saturday began. Col. Asaad Malek, the commander of a joint American and Iraqi military outpost in Diwaniya, said the Americans had been protecting a convoy of fuel trucks when they stopped to attend to a disabled vehicle.The road was crowded with pilgrims heading to Karbala, witnesses said. Salah Mon’em, 26, who was wounded, said the patrol had sounded horns to keep the crowds at bay. Before he realized what was happening, he said, “I fell down because of a bullet that hit me.”Jassim Hassan, a 25-year-old college student, described a scene of chaos and confusion. “I don’t know how all of this happened and I can’t remember a thing, because everything was so fast and sudden,” he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After the short burst of gunfire, the 8-year-old girl, Sa’adiya Saddam, collapsed on the ground by her wailing mother, witnesses said.Her brother, Hussein, also 8, said: “We didn’t notice the Americans before the gun shooting started. My sister fell immediately, swimming in her own blood.”Colonel Malek said the Americans had sent a representative to apologize to the victim’s family and had begun the process of compensation.AdvertisementOn Sunday, a trial date was set for the Iraqi journalist who threw his shoes at President Bush during his farewell visit to Iraq in December. The journalist, Muntader al-Zaidi, 29, was charged with assaulting a foreign leader. His trial is set to begin on Feb. 19, a spokesman for the court said.Lawyers for the journalist had tried to get a reduction in  the charges stemming from the episode, which made him a folk hero in much of the Arab world and beyond. In setting a trial date, however, Iraq’s top court, the Higher Federal Court, let the most serious charges stand. If convicted, he could face as many as 15 years in prison.His trial could become an important test of Iraq’s evolving judicial system. It is not clear how much of his trial, if any, will be open to the public.A brother of Mr. Zaidi’s, Maytham al-Zaidi, said he was surprised and disappointed by the decision. “I am scared now,” he said in a telephone interview. “The Higher Federal Court was our only hope. Now it looks like the Iraqi government is insisting on sending him to jail for the longest time.”Meanwhile, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, whose party made significant gains in provincial  elections on Jan. 31, has stepped up his outreach to a number of former members of the government of Saddam Hussein. The prime minister has promised them safe passage should they return to Iraq, and the possibility of government jobs or pensions.The move represents a significant effort to repair the breach with former members of Mr. Hussein’s Baath Party, who have been largely excluded from the Iraqi government.Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Imad al-Khozay from Diwaniya.Go to Home Page »Today I want to blog about Lisa Rovner, a Paris-based writer, director and artist. I first met Lisa through the pages of my magazine. Our contributing fashion editor Marie Chaix had long talked about this girl with ”a certain magic about her.” Always convinced by Marie’s taste, I commissioned her to interview Lisa, and after reading the story Lisa invited me for lunch and we became the best of friends.Click on the still to view the videoLisa continued: “The song became the perfect soundtrack for my imagined film, the one where, out of frustration, I am holding a gun shooting bullets at the sky. Like in that Joan Didion book, I am the princess caged in the consulate. Only it’s not the consulate that’s caged me, it’s the weight of my mother’s disappearance.”Lisa showed me the gun she wants to use and said that the film will be shot from the ground with a telephoto lens.“Imagine, a long slow zoom culminating on a close up of eyes full of tears,” she said. “When the zoom stops on my eyes, this image from Godard’s “My Life to Live” appears. “Live free or die” appears, then disapears on top of the image.”She also spoke about psychomagic and the cult filmmaker Alejandro Jodorowsky, whom she hopes to see this Wednesday at the Cafe Temeraire in Paris, where he regularly reads people’s tarot cards. On Jodorowsky’s Wikipedia page it says: “Psychomagic aims to heal psychological wounds suffered in life. This therapy is based on the belief that the performance of certain acts can directly act upon the unconscious mind, releasing it from a series of traumas, some of which are passed down from generation to generation.”Lisa laughed, then said, on our way up to Menilmontant to see Ami Sioux and Mark Borthwick perform by candlelight, “You know what they say, whiskey works better than beer.”Lisa Rovner photographed by Magnus Unnar for Acne Paper. Styling by Marie Chaix.AdvertisementIf the two detectives can prove that they were not acting recklessly or with criminal intent in firing their first shots at Mr. Bell and his friends in Queens on Nov. 25, 2006, then the shots that followed — 40 more rounds between them — could be determined to be justified as well, said lawyers who have represented police officers in the past and people who have been briefed on the case. A third detective faces two misdemeanor charges.Two details of the case are likely to be brought to bear on the question of justification. Mr. Bell, who was driving the car that drew the fire of the officers, had been drinking that night (an autopsy found that his blood alcohol level was well above the legal limit for driving, according to people briefed on the results). The car struck one of the detectives and then crashed into an unmarked van carrying other officers, the police said.In addition, one of the men wounded along with Mr. Bell that night has testified before a grand jury that there was talk of someone having a gun outside the nightclub where they had gone to Mr. Bell’s bachelor party, according to the people briefed on the case. The testimony — the first known account by someone other than a police official to establish that there was talk of a gun that night — could possibly bolster the claim by the officers that they had reason to fear for their lives.AdvertisementLawyers representing the men with Mr. Bell that night have played down the significance of Mr. Bell’s drinking, and said the only mention of a gun had to do with someone who was not in Mr. Bell’s party.AdvertisementMr. Bell, 23, was killed on what was to have been his wedding day, after he and his friends celebrated at Club Kalua in Jamaica, Queens.The club was the target of an undercover police investigation for drugs and prostitution. The police said that after Mr. Bell and his friends argued with a man near a parked S.U.V. outside the club, officers followed Mr. Bell to his car, believing he and two of his friends, Joseph Guzman and Trent Benefield, were retrieving a gun.No gun was found in Mr. Bell’s car. Mr. Guzman and Mr. Benefield have said the officers did not identify themselves as police before the shooting began.Detective Michael Oliver and Detective Gescard F. Isnora, who together fired a total of 42 rounds, face charges of first- and second-degree manslaughter, which could bring a sentence of 25 years in prison if they are convicted. Detective Marc Cooper, who fired four shots, faces two misdemeanor charges of reckless endangerment, which could bring a sentence of a year in prison. Another detective and a police officer, who were not charged, fired another four shots between them.In his testimony before the grand jury last March, Mr. Guzman, one of the men who were wounded, said another friend of Mr. Bell’s, James Kollore, had threatened the man at the S.U.V. and said he would take his gun or make him eat his gun, people briefed on the case said. The people describing the statements spoke on the condition of anonymity because the trial has not begun.Mr. Kollore, reached by telephone this week, declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Guzman, Sanford Rubenstein, said the statement had no bearing on whether the shooting was justified. “No one in the Bell party had a gun,” he said. “These comments totally relate to a third party who was pretending to have a gun.”As to Mr. Bell’s behavior, trial testimony is expected to show that his autopsy found his blood alcohol level to be between 0.16 percent and 0.23 percent, according to people briefed on the case. The legal limit for driving is 0.08 percent.AdvertisementThe trial is scheduled to begin Monday in Queens Criminal Court and is expected to last several weeks. Hours and hours of testimony in the courtroom will examine a time span of less than a minute on a gritty side street in Jamaica.Prosecutors have declined to discuss the case before trial. Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said Wednesday, “The case should be tried in the courtroom and not on the courthouse steps.”But Michael Hardy, a lawyer representing Mr. Bell’s fiancée, Nicole Paultre Bell, described the prosecution’s challenges at trial. “They’ve got a yeoman’s task,” he said. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt truly is the most difficult burden to meet, and their task will be no less than that. But that evidence is there.”The trial approaches with one key factor already in place: the decision last month by defense lawyers to present their case solely to a judge, Justice Arthur J. Cooperman.Both sides will probably give up something in the change from a jury trial to a bench trial. For example, there will likely be less emotional testimony from members of Mr. Bell’s family, including Ms. Bell, who took her fiancé’s name after his death. Such charged moments may have made a powerful impact on jurors, but may have less evidentiary value to the judge.On the other hand, there will probably be less attention paid to the arrest records of Mr. Bell and his two friends in the car that night. “You’d hear about it more for credibility purposes in front of a jury,” one of the people briefed on the case said. “A judge will hear about it, but not dwell on it. He’s familiar with the criminal justice system. He sees rap sheets every day.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But an examination of Mr. Bell’s drinking that night, which might have been restrained before a jury, with defense lawyers loath to appear to be attacking the victim, could be more vigorous before the judge.All three officers testified before a grand jury last year. The effect of that testimony at trial remains to be seen. If one of the detectives contradicts his prior statements on the witness stand at trial, prosecutors can use his grand jury testimony to discredit him. While one or more are expected to testify at trial, it is unclear whether all three will, people briefed on the case said.The basic outline of the night has changed little since Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly’s statement hours after the shooting.AdvertisementOfficers from an undercover team had made two recent arrests at Club Kalua, a topless bar at 143-08 94th Avenue, and arrived that night in hopes of making a third, which would speed up the process of shutting the club down. Detective Isnora and two other detectives in plainclothes were inside the club when Detective Isnora heard a dancer complain to a man in a White Sox cap that someone had harassed her. The man took her hand, patted a bulge in his clothing that the detective believed to be a gun, and told her that he would take care of the problem, the police said.The detective alerted the rest of the police team waiting in vehicles, and he left the club. But outside, a new situation arose that changed the course of the police operation. Mr. Bell’s group was arguing with the man next to the black S.U.V. about a dancer who had indicated she would have sex with the men in the bachelor party. The man kept his right hand in his jacket pocket, as if he had a gun, the police said.Detective Isnora has said he then heard Mr. Guzman say, “Yo, get my gun, get my gun,” and heard Mr. Bell say that they should beat up the man, the police said. Mr. Guzman has denied making any such statement.Mr. Bell and his friends, some eight men in all, split into two groups, with Mr. Bell, Mr. Guzman and Mr. Benefield walking around the corner onto Liverpool Street toward Mr. Bell’s car. It was then that Detective Isnora alerted the commanding officer that night, Lt. Gary Napoli, “It’s getting hot on Liverpool, for real. I think there’s a gun,” the police said.As Detective Isnora approached Mr. Bell’s car, Lieutenant Napoli’s vehicle drove past, stopping down the street, while a van carrying Detective Oliver and an officer, Michael Carey, stopped short behind Detective Isnora.Detective Isnora had clipped his badge to his collar and pulled his pistol, ordering Mr. Bell to stop, the police said, but Mr. Bell’s car lurched forward, striking him in the leg and hitting Detective Oliver’s van. The car then drove backward, hitting a roll-up gate, then forward again, slamming into the van before coming to a halt, the police said.Sometime after Mr. Bell drove the car forward, Detective Isnora fired the first shot and emptied his gun, shooting 11 times. Detective Oliver fired 16 shots, reloaded with a magazine holding 15 rounds, and emptied the gun again.The detectives’ defense is expected to examine police training and its emphasis on eliminating the threat before an officer, and not on counting bullets.Marvyn M. Kornberg, a defense lawyer who has represented police officers over the years, said the defense will probably argue the officers felt endangered.Advertisement“If you’re trying to run me down, that’s an attempt to take my life with a weapon. A 3,000-pound weapon,” Mr. Kornberg said. “The cop that fired 31 shots, he faces having to show that his actions under the circumstances were reasonable. The number of bullets does not denote whether it was reasonable or not.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy The Associated PressAfter two blown calls went against Oklahoma in its 34-33 loss at Oregon on Saturday, David Boren, the University of Oklahoma president, asked Big 12 Conference Commissioner Kevin Weiberg to pursue having the game eliminated from the record books. Weiberg responded with a statement saying the result of the game would stand.Knight had called for Oklahoma to forfeit its basketball game with Texas Tech on Jan. 20, 2003, when the host Sooners won, 69-64, in overtime after two clock controversies in the final seconds of regulation. Video replay later showed the game clock started late after the Sooners passed the ball inbounds on the tying possession.“Maybe now those people at Oklahoma understand what I was talking about,” Knight was quoted as saying yesterday in The Oklahoman.Advertisement“Had Oklahoma forfeited that game against us like I suggested, they would have gotten far more positive publicity out of that than if they had gone to the Final Four that year. Now I guess the duck is swimming in the other pond.”AdvertisementOregon scored two touchdowns late to beat Oklahoma, including the game-winner that came after the Ducks recovered an onside kick. Video replay showed that Oregon touched the ball before it went the required 10 yards, but the replay official did not overturn the call.The replay official, Gordon Riese, who was suspended by the Pacific-10 for one game, requested a leave of absence for the rest of the season, the league announced Wednesday.“I think we’ll have to put a magnifying glass on searches,” said Floyd Keith, the executive director of the Black Coaches Association. “Change is not something that has been as quick as we’d like to see it.”There are 11 minority head coaches among the more than 200 Division I-A and I-AA universities that are not historically black institutions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The black coaches group, in a report card released yesterday, said universities must appoint more minority coaches and more diverse search committees.The group said evidence showed that more diverse committees led to more consideration of minority coaches.If that meant applying Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which makes it illegal for employers to discriminate on the basis of race, so be it, Keith said during a conference call.AdvertisementThe third annual report card showed mixed results. While a record 12 of the 26 Division I-A and I-AA universities that hired head coaches received overall grades of A, a record six also received F’s, including five who received the failing marks for not reporting to the black coaches group on what steps they took to consider minority coaches. They included Wisconsin, Rice and Boise State.Three of the 12 universities that received overall A grades this year — Buffalo, Columbia and Southeast Missouri State — hired black head coaches. Kansas State, which also hired a black  coach, received a B.Taylor, a 6-foot junior from New Brunswick, N.J., turned himself in last Friday after learning of a warrant for his arrest. The police accused Taylor of obtaining a credit card number and using it for several purchases without the owner’s consent. He was charged with sixth-degree larceny, a misdemeanor, and illegal use of a credit card.A day after his arrest, Taylor started in UConn’s 24-13 loss to Wake Forest. He had five and a half tackles and forced a fumble. He was on two years’ probation after being one of five players arrested in a pellet-gun shooting outside a convenience store in May 2005.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementIf Democrats want to know how to win again, they have a model. It's the British Labor Party.When I studied in England in the early 1980's, the British Labor Party seemed as quaint and eccentric as Oxford itself, where we wore gowns for exams and some dons addressed the rare female student as "sir." Labor was caught in its own echo chamber of militant unions and anti-American activists, and it so repulsed voters that it seemed it might wither away entirely.Then Tony Blair and another M.P., Gordon Brown, dragged the party away from socialism, unions, nuclear disarmament and anti-Americanism. Together they created "New Labor," which aimed for the center and aggressively courted Middle Britain instead of trying to scare it. The result is that since 1997, Mr. Blair and Labor have utterly dominated Britain.The Democrats need a similar rebranding. But the risk is that the party will blame others for its failures -- or, worse, blame the American people for their stupidity (as London's Daily Mirror screamed in a Page 1 headline this week: "How can 59,054,087 people be so DUMB?").As moderates from the heartland, like Tom Daschle, are picked off by the Republicans, the party's image risks being defined even more by bicoastal, tree-hugging, gun-banning, French-speaking, Bordeau-sipping, Times-toting liberals, whose solution is to veer left and galvanize the base. But firing up the base means turning off swing voters. Gov. Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican, told me that each time Michael Moore spoke up for John Kerry, Mr. Kerry's support in Nebraska took a dive.AdvertisementMobilizing the base would mean nominating Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2008 and losing yet again. (Mrs. Clinton has actually undertaken just the kind of makeover that I'm talking about: in the Senate, she's been cooperative, mellow and moderate, winning over upstate New Yorkers. She could do the same in the heartland if she had 50 years.)AdvertisementSo Democrats need to give a more prominent voice to Middle American, wheat-hugging, gun-shooting, Spanish-speaking, beer-guzzling, Bible-toting centrists. (They can tote The Times, too, in a plain brown wrapper.) For a nominee who could lead the Democrats to victory, think of John Edwards, Bill Richardson or Evan Bayh, or anyone who knows the difference between straw and hay.I wish that winning were just a matter of presentation. But it's not. It involves compromising on principles. Bill Clinton won his credibility in the heartland partly by going home to Little Rock during the 1992 campaign to preside over the execution of a mentally disabled convict named Ricky Ray Rector.There was a moral ambiguity about Mr. Clinton's clambering to power over Mr. Rector's corpse. But unless Democrats compromise, they'll be proud and true and losers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.So what do the Democrats need to do? Here are four suggestions:Don't be afraid of religion. Offer government support for faith-based programs to aid the homeless, prisoners and AIDS victims. And argue theology with Republicans: there's much more biblical ammunition to support liberals than conservatives.