AdvertisementSupported byThis pattern has led to a familiar cycle of mourning, introspection and questioning about what can be done to end the violence. Below is a selection of six stories The Times has previously reported around these shootings that give context to this latest tragedy and best inform conversations about the trends in gun violence and potential gun policy considerations.Fear of gun-buying restrictions has been the main driver of spikes in gun sales, far surpassing the effects of mass shootings and terrorist attacks alone, according to an analysis of federal background check data by The New York Times.Gun violence researchers say that no law can eliminate the risk of mass shootings, which are unpredictable and represent a small minority of gun homicides over all. But there are a handful of policies that could reduce the likelihood of such events, or reduce the number of people killed when such shootings do occur. And several of them have strong public support.An ever-growing body of research consistently reaches the same conclusion. The only variable that can explain the high rate of mass shootings in America is its astronomical number of guns.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementJust hours after 17 people were killed in a mass shooting at their high school in Parkland, Fla., students turned to social media to advocate for more gun control.Watch the video above. What are your reactions to what these students of Stoneman Douglas High School share?This is life for the children of the mass shooting generation. They were born into a world reshaped by the 1999 attack at Columbine High School in Colorado, and grew up practicing active shooter drills and huddling through lockdowns. They talked about threats and safety steps with their parents and teachers. With friends, they wondered darkly whether it could happen at their own school, and who might do it.Now, this generation is almost grown up. And when a gunman killed 17 people this week at Stoneman Douglas High in Parkland, Fla., the first response of many of their classmates was not to grieve in silence, but to speak out. Their urgent voices — in television interviews, on social media, even from inside a locked school office as they hid from the gunman — are now rising in the national debate over gun violence in the aftermath of yet another school shooting.… At other high schools across the country, students rallied in solidarity with Stoneman Douglas High and staged walkouts to protest what they called Washington’s inaction in protecting students and teachers. A gun control advocacy group, Moms Demand Action, said it had been so overwhelmed with requests from students that it was setting up a parallel, student focused advocacy group.“People say it’s too early to talk about it,” Mr. Kasky said. “If you ask me, it’s way too late.”His argument reflects the words of other students who want action: The issue is not an abstraction to them. These are their murdered friends, their bloodstained schools, their upended lives.Students said they did not want to cede the discussion over their lives to politicians and adult activists.“We need to take it into our hands,” Mr. Kasky said.— What role do you think the students of Stoneman Douglas High School and other schools may play in ending gun violence in schools? Why do you think they are having such an impact? Do you think they can do more than adults can right now? Why or why not?— What do you think about Cameron Kasky’s statement that students need to take the discussion “into their own hands”?— As “children of the mass shooting generation,” how might young people’s perspectives be different from older people’s?AdvertisementAdvertisement— To what degree do you find her arguments persuasive? Explain.— How would you respond if you were asked by political leaders and other adults what should be done to end gun violence?— How do you think people of different generations can learn from each other when it comes to issues like safety in schools?— What other issues do you feel young people and those in older generations may have different perspectives on? Why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementIn a statement, the couple said they were “so inspired by the courage and eloquence of these young men and women” from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The police say the suspect — a 19-year-old former student, Nikolas Cruz — killed 17 people in a rampage with a semiautomatic weapon there last week.“Our family will be there on March 24 to stand side by side with this incredible generation of young people from all over the country,” the Clooneys said. “And in the name of our children, Ella and Alexander, we’re donating 500,000 dollars to help pay for this groundbreaking event.”“Our children’s lives depend on it,” they added.The survivors of the Stoneman Douglas school shooting have emerged as influential new voices in the gun debate, urging lawmakers to adopt new gun control measures in protests outside schools and national television appearances that have been shared widely online.AdvertisementAfter the Clooneys made their announcement, other Hollywood leaders said they would match their donation to help the March for Our Lives, including the producer Jeffrey Katzenberg and his wife, Marilyn, Oprah Winfrey, and Steven Spielberg and his wife, Kate Capshaw.AdvertisementGeorge and Amal, I couldn’t agree with you more. I am joining forces with you and will match your $500,000 donation to ‘March For Our Lives.’ These inspiring young people remind me of the Freedom Riders of the 60s who also said we’ve had ENOUGH and our voices will be heard.Sarah Chadwick, 16, one of the students organizing the nationwide protest, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday that she and other organizers were “so appreciative” of what the Clooneys had done. Plans for the march were announced over the weekend.“Five hundred thousand dollars. That’s not pocket change,” Ms. Chadwick, a junior, said. “That’s a lot of money, and we’re so thankful he donated it to our cause.”In their statement, the Katzenbergs said: “We will join Amal and George Clooney on March 24 to stand alongside these remarkable young people. We are also donating $500,000 to March for Our Lives to support this historic event.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In announcing their $500,000 donation, Mr. Spielberg and Ms. Capshaw said, “The young students in Florida and now across the country are already demonstrating their leadership with a maturity that belies their ages.”Mr. and Mrs. Clooney’s announcement came six months after they donated $1 million, through their Clooney Foundation for Justice, to the Southern Poverty Law Center, a nonprofit organization in Montgomery, Ala., that tracks extremist groups.Stan Rosenfield, a spokesman for Mr. Clooney, said the couple’s donation on Tuesday was made by them personally and did not come from their foundation.Brooks Barnes contributed reporting from Los Angeles, and Matthew Haag and Daniel Victor from New York.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementAsked whether that was an appropriate age to be protesting about a disturbing event, the principal, Danjile Henderson, said: “My fifth-grade students were very aware of the details of the events and wanted to have their own peaceful protest.”Still, she drew lines around who could participate and how. Third through fifth graders may walk out; second graders can observe, but not walk; kindergartners and first-grade students will remain in class for discussions on school safety in general that avoid the shooting itself. “Not all parents may want that detailed conversation on what happened in Florida,” Ms. Henderson said.AdvertisementWith some parents wanting their children to get firsthand exposure to a nationwide political demonstration; others worried that the protests are stoking the fears of young children about a threat that remains uncommon; and still others objecting to the gun-control message entirely, one question has been weighing heavily on school administrators this past week: How young is too young for children to join the walkout?AdvertisementAt Woods Cross Elementary School in Woods Cross, Utah, students will be allowed to leave class at 10 a.m. and go to the gym for 17 minutes, the same starting time and duration (one minute for every victim in Parkland, Fla.) as other walkouts around the country. Parents may also check them out of the school during that time, and they will not be penalized.“We’re giving them an opportunity to express their First Amendment rights in a safe place,” said Rachel Peterson, a physical education teacher at the school who is also safety commissioner for the state board of the Utah PTA.In suburban Nashville, David L. Snowden, director of schools for the Franklin Special School District, sent an email to families saying that the district had decided that it would not be appropriate for students in its elementary schools, which run through fourth grade, to participate in the walkout, but that students in grades five and up could join.In an interview, Dr. Snowden said he was not concerned that very young children would be frightened by the walkout, only that they would not understand what it was about. “Sometimes I think when you’re teaching children, especially younger children, you try to take into consideration, will there be a full understanding of what they’re doing and why they’re doing it,” he said. “Just to walk out of class for 17 minutes, I’m not sure what that is really teaching.”Even within Akron’s 50-school district, agendas for Wednesday differed markedly from school to school. At Firestone Park Elementary, students were expected to read a poem about peace. At Pfeiffer Elementary, students would be reviewing safety procedures. And at Robinson Community Learning Center there were no plans at all — students had not expressed an interest, according to the district.AdvertisementChildren in the third grade and up, she said, will be more likely to be exposed to news and hear their parents talking about it. “They are reaching a point where having something that’s potentially positive and productive to do that makes them feel a sense of agency and safety could be a good thing,” she said.Ms. Cappella said that whether elementary schools decided to participate in the protest or not, the goal should be to project a sense of community to their students. “And if you can create that space,” she said, “whether that’s in the classroom or in the hallways or in the schoolyard or out at a protest or a march, that’s the most beneficial space for young kids to be in.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Some school districts are trying to discourage any type of school walkout, regardless of age, warning that any student who participates will be marked as absent from class or even disciplined.Barbara P. Canavan, the schools superintendent in Harford County, Md., said that a walkout “presents, paradoxically, a threat to student safety, as word of the walkout has been widely disseminated and students who go outside could become more vulnerable.”Instead, Ms. Canavan said, her district would offer “a learning module that will provide students with an opportunity to share their feelings about recent events across the nation and will allow them to speak about solutions in a structured way.”The American Civil Liberties Union, which has offered training to students planning to participate in the walkouts, said that districts can discipline students under attendance guidelines.Even some schools where demonstrations are being allowed are being careful about the tone.Ms. Peterson, of Woods Cross in Utah, said that there was no program planned for the assembly — the students would be able to express themselves as long as they were not rowdy or disruptive. “We are teachers and not necessarily there to make a political statement in that time,” she said. “Whatever is decided by students in that time and space, we will allow it to happen as long as it is peaceable and respectful.”AdvertisementIf some students who stayed behind expressed surprise or bafflement at their classmates leaving the room, she said, teachers would use their own tact and judgment about how to explain it. “The way I would word it is that some kids are walking out to show support for lessening school violence, in honor of the people in Florida,” Ms. Peterson said.But in Alexandria, Va., when one school decided that fifth graders could join the walkout if their parents signed them out, a parent lodged her own form of protest.This is being organized by groups that want to ban all guns and are demanding congress act. Kids shouldn’t be used as props.“My elementary school has 5-year-olds in it,” the parent, Julie Gunlock, a senior fellow at the conservative-leaning Independent Women’s Forum, said in an interview. “Some of my friends, their kids are much younger than a fifth grader. And it’s frightening to them.”Still, she thought it was time for children to do something. “Adults have been protesting against things,” she said on Monday, “but nothing has changed that much.”Kate Taylor and Alan Blinder contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementGov. Rick Scott of Florida said on Thursday that he would call on state lawmakers and law enforcement authorities to keep firearms away from the mentally ill.“How do we make sure that individuals with mental illness do not touch a gun?” the Republican governor said at a news conference, taking an unusually strong stance on a gun control issue.Scott Israel, the Broward County, Fla., sheriff, called on lawmakers in Washington and Tallahassee to expand police powers by allowing officers to detain people for a mental health evaluation on the basis of worrisome social media posts or “graphic threats.”And President Trump urged people to report anyone whose behavior seemed disturbed, despite the fact that there is no law on the books in Florida that would let the authorities take people’s guns in that situation.A gunman armed with a semiautomatic AR-15 assault rifle and “countless magazines” killed at least 17 people at his former high school on Wednesday.In the aftermath of the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., elected and law enforcement officials ramped up their demands for expanded authority over the mentally ill who pose a danger, although some of the officials never mentioned curbing access to guns. In doing so, they stepped into a long and complicated balancing act in the United States between public safety and the right to bear arms for people with mental health issues.AdvertisementOthers, including some gun control and mental health advocates, point to the increasing number of states that allow law enforcement officers or, in some cases, family members or others to petition a court to temporarily take guns from people who pose a danger to themselves or others.AdvertisementThe measures, known as “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders, have shown evidence of reducing suicides in Connecticut, where the first such law was passed in 1999, and in recent years have also been passed in California, Washington and Oregon. Eighteen states, including Florida, and the District of Columbia are considering such laws this year, according to a list compiled by Everytown for Gun Safety, a nonprofit advocacy group.“To claim, ‘Oh, well, you should see the signs and tell law enforcement,’ to me is disingenuous unless there is something law enforcement can do,” said Avery Gardiner, the co-president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.Red flag laws, she said, “provide a path to remove guns from somebody in a temporary crisis.” And, she said, even if a family decides not to seek a gun restraining order, the fact that the option exists can prompt frank conversations with struggling relatives.Just hours after 17 people were killed in a mass shooting at their high school in Parkland, Fla., students turned to social media to advocate for more gun control.Mr. Trump and Republican lawmakers have long tried to steer the national conversation after mass shootings to the mental health of people pulling the triggers, rather than the weapons they used. That effort is belied by the fact that mental illness is not the root of most cases of gun violence, though it does pose an increased risk for suicide.As reactions poured in Thursday, Mr. Trump focused on the suspect’s mental health, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions said he wanted the Justice Department to study how mental illness and gun violence intersect. He said it would help law enforcement better understand how law enforcement can use existing laws to intervene before school shootings happen.“It cannot be denied that something dangerous and unhealthy is happening in our country,” Mr. Sessions told a group of sheriffs in Washington. In “every one of these cases, we’ve had advance indications and perhaps we haven’t been effective enough in intervening.”Secretary Alex M. Azar II of the Department of Health and Human Services began a multiagency news conference on the flu epidemic by addressing the Florida shootings. The administration would be “laser-focused on getting Americans with mental illness the help they need,” he said.AdvertisementThe suspect in the Florida shooting, Nikolas Cruz, 19, had been expelled from the high school, and many former classmates avoided him, convinced he was dangerous. He was also apparently showing signs of depression, having recently lost his mother.A vast majority of guns used in 19 recent mass shootings were bought legally and with a federal background check.In an analysis of some 350 mass killers going back a century, about 22 percent were found to likely have had psychosis; the rate in the general population is closer to 1 percent. A much smaller percentage had severe depression; so far there is no evidence Mr. Cruz had psychosis.Federal law forbids people who have been involuntarily committed to a psychiatric hospital and people found to be a danger to themselves or others from having guns. But the federal government depends on states to report such cases so it can add them to a national background check system, and reporting varies widely.Florida has entered 141,042 mental health records into the national background check system, according to the Brady Campaign. Wyoming, on the other hand, has entered four.The number of mental health records in the system has grown rapidly, to 5.2 million in 2018 from 234,628 in 2005, the Brady Campaign said.But after 20 children and six adults were killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, the Obama administration tried to add some people to the background check system, by requiring the Social Security Administration to submit records of some beneficiaries with severe mental illness.Some gun limits are considered effective and would have public support.Last year, Mr. Trump quietly revoked that rule, which was also opposed by the American Civil Liberties Union.Some states have tried to create their own databases of people deemed too mentally unstable to carry firearms. New York, one of the most restrictive states in the country, had put 34,500 names on its list by 2014, a figure that raised concerns among some mental health advocates that too many people had been categorized as dangerous.AdvertisementBut that approach has largely fallen out of favor, with more states turning to red flag laws that focus not on a mental health diagnosis but rather on dangerous behavior.They bloomed in several states after the Isla Vista shooting in 2014, in which a disturbed man killed six University of California, Santa Barbara students after his family had tried unsuccessfully to alert the authorities about his troubling behavior.The laws typically allow the police or family members to petition a court for a temporary gun restraining order that might last a few weeks. After a hearing in which the person can respond to evidence, a judge can issue a final order that typically lasts up to a year and can be renewed. The restraining orders usually allow the police to seize people’s guns and restrict them from buying new ones.Understand the world with sharp insight and commentary on the major news stories of the week.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In Connecticut, where 762 gun seizure cases were carried out from 1999 to June 2013, a study by researchers at Duke University estimated that the law had averted approximately one suicide for every 10 to 11 gun seizure cases.“We see these laws as a way for law enforcement and families to intervene before these mass tragedies occur,” said Elizabeth Avore, the legal and policy director at Everytown for Gun Safety. “Law enforcement or family are usually the first to see this threat.”In California, efforts to expand the list of those who could petition for restraining orders to include co-workers and employers drew opposition not only from pro-gun groups like the National Rifle Association but also from the A.C.L.U.Florida is one of the less restrictive states when it comes to mental illness and guns. The police can confine people considered a danger to themselves or others for up to 72 hours as part of an involuntary psychiatric evaluation. And the police are allowed to take their guns when they are detained. But a 2009 advisory opinion by the state’s attorney general said that without an arrest or criminal charge, the police could not hold onto their weapons.Mental health experts said the proposals raised by the sheriff and Mr. Scott provoked concerns.“To say no one with mental illness should have a gun — how do you accomplish that?” said Ronald Honberg, senior policy adviser for the National Alliance on Mental Illness. “Does that mean anybody that goes to a therapist for depression or anxiety should be reported and put in a database and prohibited from purchasing a firearm? That would impact a fair number of police officers.”Benedict Carey contributed reporting.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementIt is not just in Florida where the mass shooting at a high school is prompting lawmakers to take up gun control legislation. The same thing is happening across the country, from Washington to Vermont.What was one of the deadliest school shootings in modern American history prompted Gov. Gina Raimondo of Rhode Island to sign an executive order on Monday to establish a policy to take guns away from people who pose a danger to themselves or others.“If the federal government won’t act, states need to do more to prevent the gun violence that has become far too common,” Ms. Raimondo, a Democrat, said in signing the measure.AdvertisementStill, not all states are moving to toughen gun laws. Some states are considering action to loosen regulations. Here is a roundup of what states are considering doing or have already done.AdvertisementGov. Rick Scott, a Republican, proposed raising the minimum age to buy assault rifles to 21 and called for a raft of measures he said could keep mentally ill or violent people from purchasing weapons and keep schools safer. Republicans in the House and Senate, who appear supportive of Mr. Scott’s proposals, also called for a three-day waiting period on the purchase of those weapons, which already exists for those who wish to buy handguns.Mr. Scott proposed $450 million in new funding for school security and $50 million in mental health funding and called for a law enforcement officer to be posted in every public school.Advertisement“The reality of how close we came to a devastating tragedy underscores the threat of violence that faces the entire country,” he said. “As a result, I’ve been asking myself, ‘Are we doing everything we can to protect our kids?’”Now, he said, “Everything should be on the table at this point.”The day after the shooting, Oregon’s House passed a bill making it illegal for people convicted of domestic violence or those with restraining orders against them to possess weapons, even if they are not married to, do not live with, or do not have children with their victims.AdvertisementLawmakers in Washington are also working on a ban on bump stocks, which accelerate the rate of fire on semiautomatic firearms. The legislation passed the Senate in January and the House on Friday, with a final Senate vote remaining.Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, has appointed a committee to propose concrete actions and urged it to make its recommendations quickly.Meanwhile, several bills, some restricting access to guns and some expanding it, are pending in the Statehouse.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Madigan said lawmakers this week would also introduce legislation to raise the minimum age to purchase military-style assault rifles to 21.In the House, a committee passed a bill last week allowing people to carry weapons at churches that share property with schools, as long as they are working for or attending the church, and the church does not prohibit weapons. This month, before the shooting, the measure was passed by the full Senate.The House has passed a measure that the N.R.A. calls “self-defense” legislation. It would let people carry guns on the grounds of schools or churches. The Senate is considering a bill to repeal the permitting process to allow law-abiding citizens to carry a weapon without having to get a concealed-carry permit.AdvertisementAfter the shooting, Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, a Republican, sent a letter to Mike Morath, the Texas Education Agency commissioner, ordering safety information to be distributed to all schools, and asking him to take steps to ensure that all schools have completed safety audits and that all have a multihazard emergency plan in place.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementAbove is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows?How well did you follow the news this past week? How many of these 10 questions can you get right?held sit-insskipped schoolwalked out of schoolswrote letters to their elected representativeschief of staffsecretary of defensesecretary of stateWhite House counselbalconylarge construction cranepedestrian bridgeradio towerCreighton UniversityKennesaw State Universitythe North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State Universitythe University of Maryland, Baltimore Countycalled for a popular boycott of all Russian productscanceled a planned summit with Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president,expelled 23 Russian diplomatsraised the national terror threat levelMichiganOhioPennsylvaniaWisconsinF.A.O. SchwarzK.B. ToysTops 'N' ToysToys “R” UsFacebookInstagramSnapchatTwitterphilosopherphysicistpoliticianprovostThree of the articles below about Trump administration expenditures were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?Ben Carson’s HUD Spends $31,000 on Dining Set for His OfficeE.P.A. Chief Pruitt Postpones Trip to Israel Amid Scrutiny of High-Priced TravelReport Faults V.A. Secretary Shulkin Over Travel to EuropeRick Perry Apologizes for Trying to Outdo Fellow Cabinet Members by Using $72 Million of Taxpayer Funds on LampshadeAdvertisementJoseph R. Biden Jr., second from left, was among those honored by Sandy Hook Promise, a group that seeks to prevent gun violence, at its Dec. 12 gala at the Plaza Hotel. He was joined by, from left, Mark Barden, Nicole Hockley and Ron Conway.1 of 22AdvertisementA child is shot to death. Maybe at school, maybe at the movies. It is all over TV, all over Twitter, just like the last mass shooting.Then the cameras go away, and the parents are left in a wilderness of heartbreak. They do not know how to plan a funeral, where to get a therapist. They’re not aware that scammers will try to fund-raise off their grief, that conspiracy theorists will question their tragedy, or that — hard to believe — they might, eventually, be O.K.But lots of people do know.AdvertisementAdvertisementSome mourn in private. Some confront politicians, join gun-control groups and flock to rallies. But whether they turn to advocacy or not, many gravitate toward one another, checking on each other by Facebook or phone whenever another gunman strikes.In a gun-control debate that often splinters along ideological lines, no one speaks more powerfully than those who survived a high-profile shooting, or the families of those who did not. The power of their testimonials goes beyond their authenticity: They, unlike politicians and advocates, can usually avoid the accusation that they are politicizing a tragedy.The difference is that mass-shooting survivors have yet to win any major victories on the federal level. So they do what they can, hoping that when the next mass shooting happens, more people will take to their cause.“The more people that are affected in some way, the more people care; yeah, that’s what it’s going to take,” said Jenna Yuille, whose 54-year-old mother, Cindy Yuille, was one of two people shot and killed at the Clackamas Town Center outside Portland, Ore., in December 2012. “It’s horrible, but that’s part of what it’s going to take.”AdvertisementAt an Everytown training event in the spring of 2015, Ms. Yuille met Erica Lafferty, the daughter of one of the Newtown victims, Dawn Hochsprung, Sandy Hook’s principal. They were around the same age; their mothers had died three days apart. The connection was instantaneous.When they heard about the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Wednesday — Ms. Yuille in a text from her boyfriend, Ms. Lafferty when she glanced at CNN — Ms. Yuille texted Ms. Lafferty to check on her.They felt the same, they said: Tired.“Is it bad that we’re feeling so numb? Is it bad that I haven’t cried?” Ms. Lafferty asked Ms. Yuille on Friday, during a joint interview. “Because I haven’t.”“Same,” said Ms. Yuille, 29. “I know there are other people, especially in Oregon, that see me as a leader on this issue, and being a spokesperson on this issue, so I worry about that. I don’t want to let people down.”“Exactly,” said Ms. Lafferty, 32, who works for Everytown. “Like, if I slow down, am I going to disappoint anyone? Am I going to disappoint myself?”Many families, of course, do not want to be the faces of anything. They want to struggle in quiet, if not quite in peace. Some of the families of the Newtown victims have never spoken publicly about their ordeal. And some family members, Ms. Phillips said, continue to support gun rights.Advertisement“People who are affected in a personal way become lifelong dedicated volunteers to this,” said Robert Bowers Disney, the vice president for organizing at the Brady Campaign. “It just fundamentally changes people’s lives and experiences.”The Phillipses have been to the scene of almost every major shooting since their daughter died, usually letting local authorities and charitable organizations know that they are there if families need them. In Florida, they are planning to offer to connect the families of the teachers killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School to the daughter of a teacher killed at Columbine in 1999.“They may not be wanting to talk, but when you tell them, ‘I lost my daughter in the Aurora theater massacre,’ they’re like, ‘Oh … my God,’” Ms. Phillips said. “It’s that initial, ‘Oh, you get this.’”What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.They offer advice on grim matters like psychological treatment (you don’t need a grief counselor, they say; you need a trauma therapist) and how to fend off scammers who pretend to raise money for families, only to keep it for themselves.Increasingly, they have had to warn people about the online trolls who will inevitably inundate them with claims that the shooting was a government hoax.Some people take months to get in touch. Others, angry, want to talk about activism even before they bury their loved one. One man in Las Vegas who had lost his wife in the country music festival shooting knew no one else in town. So, while he waited for his wife’s body to be released, he turned to Lonnie and Sandy Phillips. They are still talking.One of the first people the Phillipses spoke to after beginning this work was Nicole Hockley, whose son, Dylan, was killed at Sandy Hook Elementary.Ms. Hockley waited a month to meet with the Phillipses, and even then, she wondered if it was too soon. “It can also be scary to potentially see your future self from a path that you didn’t choose,” she said. “But also knowing that other people have survived and have found ways to keep walking forward — that can help as well.”AdvertisementMs. Hockley, the co-director of the anti-gun-violence group Sandy Hook Promise, now tries to let the families of each successive wave of shooting victims know that they can lean on her for support when they are ready. She is careful to put aside her political agenda in those conversations, she said, not wanting to exploit their grief.Ms. Hockley heard about Wednesday’s Parkland shooting while on a work trip to Los Angeles. She crumbled as she learned that it was a school.By Thursday, she was on a plane to Florida.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorWith each mass shooting, calls rise from gun control advocates for tighter rules on firearms. The go-to policy prescription involves background checks. But a measure passed by the House and being considered in the Senate to expand the National Instant Criminal Background Check System would not only fail to fix major flaws in the system but would also probably introduce new ones.The background check measures before Congress aim to improve enforcement of existing law and increase such reporting by imposing financial penalties on government officials whose agencies fail to provide required information. That’s a good goal, but any proposal should also fix another major problem with the background check system: false positives that stop law-abiding people from getting weapons that they might need to protect themselves and their families.The background check system confuses the names of law-abiding individuals with those of criminals, resulting in thousands of “false positives” every year. Relying on phonetically similar names along with birth dates just doesn’t allow for much accuracy.Ronnie Coleman, a Virginia resident, was not allowed to buy a gun in 2012 because another person from his hometown in Texas who had a felony conviction also had a name and birth date “close enough” to his to cause a denial. Mr. Coleman was advised to get a unique transaction number from the background system to prevent this confusion in the future, adding another bureaucratic step to the process.Why didn’t more of those denials lead to perjury prosecutions? According to my analysis, the reason is simple: a high percentage of cases are dropped because the applicant was wrongly denied clearance to buy a gun.Many of those people are trying to buy guns to protect themselves. “This incredibly high rate of false positives imposes a real burden on the most vulnerable people,” said Reagan Dunn, the first national coordinator for Project Safe Neighborhoods, a Justice Department program started in 2001 to ensure gun laws are enforced.The system also does a poor job of accounting for people who have had their rights to buy a firearm taken away and then restored. In the 1990s, Frank Wise of Jacksonville Beach, Fla., was convicted of check fraud after his employer went bankrupt. When his paycheck bounced, two checks he sent to his mortgage company also bounced. Nearly 20 years later, Mr. Wise was able to get his record cleared, but that information wasn’t entered into the background check system for three years. Getting this fixed cost him $3,600 in legal fees.To get some idea of what background checks add to the price of a weapon, look at the fees for checks on private transfers in states that already impose checks. In New York City and Washington, those fees cost at least $125 for private gun sales.If people believe that background checks reduce crime and benefit everyone, everyone should pay for it, out of general government revenue. Pushing background checks on private transfers as proposed during the hearing disarms many law-abiding poor people.We do need to fix the background check system. But let’s really fix it. Let’s make sure that rare cases like Devin Kelley can’t slip through the cracks, but let’s also make sure that the government stops preventing millions of law-abiding citizens from buying guns for protection. Adding more names without fixing these problems will only disarm law-abiding Americans.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS