AdvertisementDemands for gun restrictions have followed one mass shooting after another, but little has changed. This time, the students who survived are leading the charge.The aftermath of a mass shooting has become a familiar cycle in the United States: One side demands change, the other works to block it.But this time, it is the students who survived the assault who are pressing lawmakers to impose new restrictions on guns.On today’s episode:Background reading:AdvertisementAdvertisementIf you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Paige Cowett, Lynsea Garrison, Andy Mills, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah and Clare Toeniskoetter, with editing help from Larissa Anderson. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byEnter Dr. Price (Jason Clarke), a psychologist hired by the Winchester company’s board to count Sarah’s marbles and report back. Conveniently addicted to laudanum, Dr. Price is soon staggering around the labyrinthine structure, besieged by generic scares: a creepy butler, a rattling armoire, a child in the grip of milky-eyed possession. The Hogwarts-like domicile might be swarming with staff and construction workers, but not until Price arrives do the spirits hit the fan.Movie data powered by IMDb.comAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementAbove is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows?How well did you follow the news this past week? How many of these 10 questions can you get right?Please note: Our next Weekly News Quiz will publish on April 10.Democratic governorsgrandmothers of gunshot victimsstudents, some still in elementary schoolteachers and college professorsmulti-billion-dollar hedge-fund managerOlympic synchronized swimmerpornographic film starTV weather womana $1.3 trillion spendinga gun safetyan immigration reforma Russian sanctionsAustin, Tex.Boise, IdahoKansas City, Mo.Memphis, Tenn.Chinese goodsGerman carsMexican petroleumRussian technologyImmigration and Customs Enforcement agents raided several California businesses and arrested dozens of peoplethe Kings defeated the Celtics at the the Golden 1 Centerthe police fatally shot a young black man in his backyardPresident Trump held a rally on the steps of the California State Capitol buildingballot box rigging during the recent Russian presidential electionpoisoning of a former Russian spy in Britainsystematic doping in the recent Winter Olympicstrade with North Korea in violation of United Nations sanctionsStephen BannonJohn BoltonHope HicksAnthony Scaramuccicoal minemunitions factoryshopping mallski resort lodgeThree of the articles below about Facebook were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?Cambridge Analytica Suspends C.E.O. Amid Facebook Data ScandalFacebook’s Role in Data Misuse Sets Off Storms on Two ContinentsHow Calls for Privacy May Upend Business for Facebook and GoogleMark Zuckerberg Promises That Misuse Of Facebook User Data Will Happen Again And AgainAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:But to create real change, we must enact permit-to-buy policies; prohibit those with a history of violent misdemeanors, hate crimes and all domestic violence from getting access to guns; ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines; and enact extreme risk protection orders, which allow family members and/or law enforcement to petition a court to temporarily remove guns from those in crisis.The political climate has shifted. Talking about guns is no longer politically risky. Constituents are demanding change, and as legislation to fix the criminal background check system demonstrates, legislators on both sides of the aisle are stepping up.Improving the system is only the first step. Legislators must take note of this cultural shift and embrace the numerous evidence-based policies that can keep our country safe.CHRISTIAN HEYNE, WASHINGTONThe writer is legislative director at the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementA preview of the film.Only some of that history makes it into this disappointing movie, which tracks Johnson’s road from the Senate to the vice presidency and then the presidency, an ascension that culminates with him assuming the role of the nation’s healer after John F. Kennedy’s death. It’s a near-miraculous, compressed coming into consciousness (the movie runs 98 minutes) that develops through different time frames and neatly dovetailing scenes that suggest history is plotted by that great filmmaker in the sky. One moment it’s 1960 and Johnson is weighing his chances as the next Democratic presidential nominee; the next, he is struggling to find a place in the Kennedy administration and vainly looking for political love in the Oval Office.Taken together, these movies create a kaleidoscopic portrait of a profoundly changing nation using black, female and marginal characters who once would have remained behind while the white hero went off to write history. They represent, onscreen and off, the very changes that they narrate. With its armies of pale men and next to no black characters, “LBJ” doesn’t look all that different from most other great-man stories. Yet there are moments — Johnson conspiring with a racist power broker played by an excellent Richard Jenkins — when the filmmakers seem ready to shake up the story by laying white, male power bare in all its ugliness. In scenes like these, the movie inches around complexity even as it continues to clear the way for another make-believe savior.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBERRYVILLE, Va. — For more than a month now, the questions have ricocheted down this Main Street culled from a Norman Rockwell dreamscape — past the dueling barbershops and the outdoor broom sale and the mural with the horse — quietly at first, when the Florida massacre was still fresh, and then not so quietly.Why would this time be different? Why should it be?“Every time something happens, everybody’s hollering,” Garland Ashby, 77, the owner of an estimated 75 guns, said of the recent protests over gun control, rubbing at his cigarette stub from a park bench in this town of 4,200. “A couple of months it’s in the news, and then it’s gone.”“It’ll go away,” Mr. Ashby predicted, grinding the cigarette into the mud. “Like all the other times.”Advertisement“They’re looking for us to get bored,” said Rosie Banks, 17, a high school junior about 40 miles east in Sterling, Va., whose bedroom includes the “Am I Next?” sign she hauled across the capital last month and a fish named Malcolm X. “We’re not going to get bored.”AdvertisementThis has certainly not happened yet. Both before and after the march, high school students have shown themselves eager to hatch longer-term plans, with some plotting together last week through their spring breaks.In this stretch of Northern Virginia, students are trying to organize a town hall with Representative Barbara Comstock, one of the most vulnerable Republicans in Congress, recognizing that her support from the National Rifle Association could be a drag in a district that preferred Hillary Clinton in 2016.New voter registration pushes, steered by teenagers, are well underway. Students are consulting with established (and adult-run) groups like Everytown for Gun Safety, founded and financed by Michael R. Bloomberg, and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence — with plans to discuss how to host their own candidate events before November or start clubs at their schools.Even less politically active students in Virginia’s 10th Congressional District have learned Ms. Comstock’s name. “They know who she is,” said Paige Thimmesch, 16, Ms. Banks’s classmate in Sterling, Va., who is hoping to arrange the forum with the congresswoman. “They don’t know every single policy. They do know that she is pro-gun.”Looking to history, fledgling activists are researching Vietnam-era student protests for context and inspiration. They are using words like “intersectional.” They are quoting favored lyrics from “Hamilton”: “This is not a moment, it’s the movement.”That movement, though, will hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout among young Americans — translating sound and fury into the long, slow work of lasting change.AdvertisementWhile youth-driven movements in recent years, like Black Lives Matter and Occupy Wall Street, have installed themselves as forces in Democratic politics and the national discourse, their effects at the ballot box have been uncertain.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Yet even in corners of the country unaccustomed to dissent on gun issues, supporters of restrictions sense an opening. In Maine’s Second Congressional District, a region that includes both small cities and parcels of land so rural they are officially called “unorganized territory,” school walkouts and satellite March for Our Lives protests have specked the map, powered by students and Democratic activists.“We’ll outlive them,” said Sean Monteith, 17, a junior at Lewiston High School, adding that he hoped his peers would be able to outvote them, too. His cellphone includes a list of action items and reminders: “connect with city council,” “draft legislation,” “do not go on assumptions.”Back in Washington, a handful of Republicans seem attuned to at least two of those directives, hedging their positions in recent weeks to accommodate the post-Parkland moment. Several vulnerable members signed on to a Democratic bill authorizing federal research into gun violence. Two of them, Brian Mast and Carlos Curbelo, both Republicans from Florida, have endorsed an assault weapons ban.Activists appear determined to make others pay a professional price for declining to engage. In Colorado’s Sixth District, where Representative Mike Coffman is widely considered one of the most endangered Republican incumbents, organizers with Never Again Colorado, a new group advocating gun control, are planning a forum to discuss guns “with or without” Mr. Coffman. The district includes Aurora, where a gunman killed 12 people in a movie theater in 2012.“We have a lot of momentum right now,” said Ian Gaskins, 17, a high school junior who is helping to plan the event. “I don’t want people to stop caring about this until the next mass shooting.”AdvertisementFor Democrats, the zeal for gun control has at once presented an uncommon opportunity and an occasion to revisit plans for midterm messaging. After Mr. Trump’s election, his opponents did not necessarily expect a gun reckoning to be central to their 2018 strategy.Eight months later, it is gun violence, more than any fiscal issue, that has galvanized a new generation of prospective Democrats, some not yet old enough to vote.In Virginia, the party had already long targeted Ms. Comstock, casting her as a poor fit for a district that includes some rural pockets, like Berryville, but also left-leaning Washington suburbs and vast reserves of more moderate voters repelled by Mr. Trump. “Barbara Bump-Stock,” said Candy Baracat-Donovan, 34, from Leesburg, Va., whose morning routine now includes a round of phone calls to the offices of representatives like Ms. Comstock.A spokesman for Ms. Comstock, Jeff Marschner, said the congresswoman was “committed to a multipronged effort to prevent gun violence,” citing her support for additional mental health funding and narrow, N.R.A.-backed legislation improving reporting to the national background check database, among other measures.It is not clear if she will agree to a town hall with students. They seem to understand the calculation.“High school students are scary,” said Jay Falk, 18, a senior in Virginia who co-founded Students Demand Action DMV, a gun control group with over 100 members. “We are not cynical yet.”Matt Flegenheimer reported from Berryville, Va., and Jess Bidgood from Lewiston, Me.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementA preview of the film.One of the foundational themes of the western is the making of America, an origin story that plays out in tales about frontiers, borders, wagon trains, settlements, railroads, towns, cowboys and Indians. Invariably, these are narratives of violent transformations in which land becomes property and some people become citizens while others remain outlaws or are turned into permanent exiles. In “Lefty Brown,” those changes have already affected a Montana rancher, Edward Johnson (Peter Fonda), who has recently been elected a senator and is headed east. He’s a classic type, the outsider as insider who, as he tells his wife, Laura (Kathy Baker), is “going to take on all of Washington.”Go to Home Page »AdvertisementHONG KONG — A newspaper controlled by the Communist Party of China criticized the United States for its high level of gun violence, calling it hypocritical that a country that condemns others over human rights violations is failing to stem such slaughter at home.The opinion column in The Global Times, which is run by the Communist Party’s People’s Daily Group, said that after a gunman killed 17 people last week at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., the United States should look to China, which has strict controls on guns.The column on guns appeared Friday in the English-language edition of the newspaper, but not in the Chinese print version. While The Global Times is controlled by the Communist Party, it is not an authoritative voice, meaning its pugnacious opinion pieces don’t necessarily reflect the views of the Chinese government in the way a commentary in The People’s Daily would.AdvertisementStill, the view that guns are a human rights issue in the United States is regularly stated by official sources in China. China’s annual report on human rights in the United States, which it issues in response to the State Department’s reports on China’s human rights situation, usually mentions gun violence.AdvertisementPlease verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Gun ownership in China is strictly regulated, which helps reduce gun-related crimes and deaths,” the latest commentary said. “The U.S. should learn from China and genuinely protect human rights.”While China has tight controls on firearms and gun crimes are rare, shootings with illegal firearms do sometimes happen. Knives are the most common weapon used in attacks, leaving unarmed people better able to defend themselves. On Feb. 11 a man with a knife attacked shoppers at a Beijing mall, killing one person and injuring 12 others. Some shoppers and one security guard were seen fending of the assailant with stools and chairs.Zoe Mou and Olivia Ryan contributed research from Beijing.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBefore reading the article:Today’s article begins:What other examples can you think of where groups of students or teenagers exercised their First Amendment rights for a cause or to effect change?AdvertisementAdvertisementFinally, tell us more about what you think:Will you or your classmates participate in a school walkout to protest gun violence or to honor the students who died in Parkland, Fla.? Do you know what other schools or classes are doing, if anything? Either way, what are your thoughts about what is planned, or not planned, and why?How young is too young for a protest, in your opinion? Does the type of protest, or the venue, matter? Why or why not?See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byThat conclusion is not shared by experts or widely accepted research.Some further research:“Two things typically happen in the wake of a mass shooting. First, politicians claim that mental illness is the major cause of violence in America. Then, advocates for people with mental illness respond by denying there is any relationship whatsoever between mental illness and violence. Both groups are wrong. Research shows that the association between mental illness and violence is not strong, but it does exist.”Israeli officials and experts rejected this version of events after a similar claim was made by Wayne LaPierre, the president of the National Rifle Association, after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in which 20 children and six adults were killed.“What removed the danger was not the armed guards, but an overall antiterror policy and antiterror operations, which brought street terrorism down to nearly zero over a number of years,” Mr. Palmor said.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS