AdvertisementElon, N.C.Lapeer, Mich.Allendale, N.J.Parkland, Fla.Noblesville, Ind.Newtown, Conn.On Wednesday, driven by the conviction that they should never have to run from guns again, they walked.So did their peers. In New York City, in Chicago, in Atlanta and Santa Monica; at Columbine High School and in Newtown, Conn.; and in many more cities and towns, students left school by the hundreds and the thousands at 10 a.m., sometimes in defiance of school authorities, who seemed divided and even flummoxed about how to handle their emptying classrooms.The first major coordinated action of the student-led movement for gun control marshaled the same elements that had defined it ever since the Parkland shooting: eloquent young voices, equipped with symbolism and social media savvy, riding a resolve as yet untouched by cynicism.Advertisement“We have grown up watching more tragedies occur and continuously asking: Why?” said Kaylee Tyner, a 16-year-old junior at Columbine High School outside Denver, where 13 people were killed in 1999, inaugurating, in the public consciousness, the era of school shootings. “Why does this keep happening?”AdvertisementEven after a year of near continuous protesting — for women, for the environment, for immigrants and more — the emergence of people not even old enough to drive as a political force has been particularly arresting, unsettling a gun control debate that had seemed impervious to other factors.On a national level, the students have not had the same impact. This week, President Trump abandoned gun control proposals that the Republican-led Congress had never even inched toward supporting.But, for one day at least, the students commanded the country’s airwaves, Twitter feeds and Snapchat stories.Principals and superintendents seemed disinclined to stop them. Some were outright supportive, though others warned that students would face disciplinary consequences for leaving school. At many schools, teachers and parents joined in.Wreathed in symbolism, the walkouts generally lasted for 17 minutes, one for each of the Parkland victims. Two more nationwide protests are set to take place on March 24 and on April 20, the anniversary of the Columbine shooting.On a soccer field burned yellow by the Colorado sun, Ms. Tyner stood alongside hundreds of her fellow students, who waved signs — “This is our future,” one said — and released red, white and blue balloons.AdvertisementYet in many places, for many students, Wednesday was just Wednesday, and class went on. Even at Columbine, the embrace of the gun control movement was not universal.“People say it’s all about gun control, it’s all about, ‘We should ban guns,’” said Caleb Conrad, 16, a junior, who stayed in class. “But that’s not the real issue here. The real issue is the people who are doing it.”In the one-school rural community of Potosi, Wis., no student group had organized a protest. After a handful of students expressed some interest, the school decided to hold an assembly at 10 a.m. to talk about school safety measures and the value of being kind to one another.At 10 a.m., one student, a female freshman, left the building alone.Throughout the assembly, she sat by herself outside, by a flagpole, for 17 minutes. She appeared to be praying, said the principal, Mike Uppena, adding that she was not in trouble for leaving.Officials in Lafayette Parish, La., initially said that students could participate in the day’s events, believing that it was appropriate to honor the Florida victims. But when it became clear there was a political motive to the walkout, a torrent of complaints from the local community led the school board to adopt a new plan: a minute of silence.Dozens of students walked out anyway.In some places, demonstrators chanted and held signs. At other schools, students stood in silence. In Atlanta, some students took a knee.Thousands of New York City students converged on central locations — Columbus Circle, Battery Park, Brooklyn Borough Hall, Lincoln Center.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, stretched out on the sidewalk as part of a “die-in” with students in Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, the former home of the Occupy Wall Street protests.AdvertisementHundreds sat in the middle of West 62nd Street for several minutes before rising to their feet and shouting, “No more violence.” A cry of “Trump Tower!” sent dozens of protesters marching toward the Trump International Hotel and Tower across Broadway. Onlookers gave them fist-bumps.In Washington, thousands left their classrooms in the city and its suburbs and marched to the Capitol steps, their high-pitched voices battling against the stiff wind: “Hey-hey, ho-ho, the N.R.A. has got to go!” One sign said: “Fix This, Before I Text My Mom from Under A Desk.”Members of Congress, overwhelmingly Democratic, emerged from the Capitol to meet them. Trailed by aides and cameras, some legislators high-fived the children in the front rows, others took selfies, and nearly all soon learned that the young protesters had no idea who they were.Except, of course, for “BERNIE SANDERS!” which the protesters screamed at the Vermont senator, as well at some other white-haired, bespectacled legislators.Asked by reporters about the walkouts, Raj Shah, Mr. Trump’s deputy press secretary, said the president “shares the students’ concerns about school safety” and cited his support for mental health and background check improvements.As the hours passed, the walkouts moved west across the country.“It’s 10 o’clock,” said a man on the intercom at Perspectives Charter Schools on Chicago’s South Side. With that, hundreds of students streamed out of their classrooms and into the neighborhood, marching past modest brick homes, a Walgreens and multiple churches.Several current and former Perspectives students have been killed in recent years, the school president said.“You see different types of violence going on,” said Armaria Broyles, a junior who helped lead the walkout and whose older brother was killed in a shooting. “We all want a good community and we all want to make a change.”AdvertisementAt Santa Monica High School in Southern California, teachers guided hundreds of students to the football field. It felt like a cross between a political rally and pep rally, with dozens of students wearing orange T-shirts, the color of the gun control movement, and #neveragain scrawled onto their arms in black eyeliner.“It is our duty to win,” Roger Gawne, a freshman and one of the protest organizers, yelled to the crowd.The protests calling for stricter gun control measures come on the heels of other youth movements, but the momentum they have gained makes them stand out.Although the walkouts commanded attention on cable television and social media for much of Wednesday, it also was clear that many students did not participate, especially in rural and conservative areas where gun control is not popular.At Bartlesville High School in Bartlesville, Okla., where hundreds of students walked out of class last month to protest cuts in state education funding, nothing at all happened at 10 a.m.“I haven’t heard a word about it,” the principal, LaDonna Chancellor, said of the gun protest.In Iowa, Russell Reiter, superintendent of the Oskaloosa Community School District, suggested that temperatures below 40 degrees may have encouraged students to stay indoors, but he also said that “students here are just not interested in what is going on in bigger cities.”There was opposition even in liberal Santa Monica. Just after the organizers of the walkout there read the names of the Parkland victims, another student went on stage, grabbed the microphone and shouted “Support the Second Amendment!” before he was called off by administrators.Some of the day’s most poignant demonstrations happened at schools whose names are now synonymous with shootings.Watched by a phalanx of reporters, camera operators and supporters, hundreds of students crowded onto the football field at Stoneman Douglas High shortly after 10 a.m.AdvertisementA month after the Feb. 14 shooting, notes of condolence, fading flowers and stuffed toys, damp from recent rain, still lay on the grass outside the school and affixed to metal fences.The walkout was allowed by the school, but several students said they were warned that they would not be permitted back onto the campus for the day if they left school grounds. Despite the warning, a couple of hundred students marched to a nearby park for another demonstration.“We need more than just 17 minutes,” Nicolle Montgomerie, 17, a junior, said as she walked toward the park.An email from the school soon went out telling students they could return.In Newtown, Conn., where 26 people were killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, hundreds of students at Newtown High School gathered in a parking lot near the football field. Two hours later, it was Columbine’s turn.Shortly after the walkouts began, the National Rifle Association said on Twitter, “Let’s work together to secure our schools and stop school violence.”But the next tweet left no doubt as to where the N.R.A. stood on the message of the protests. It said, “I’ll control my own guns, thank you. #2A #NRA” atop a photo of an AR-15, the kind of high-powered rifle used at Stoneman Douglas High and in other mass shootings.The Gun Owners of America, a smaller organization often seen as more militant than the N.R.A., was more defiant.The group urged its supporters to call their elected officials to oppose gun control measures like Fix NICS, which is intended to improve reporting by state and federal agencies to the criminal background check system. “We could win or lose the gun control battle in the next 96 hours,” the group said on Twitter.AdvertisementThe group also celebrated “the pro-gun students who are not supporting their anti-gun counterparts.”Some schools accommodated or even encouraged the protests. But others warned that they would mark students who left as absent, or even suspend them.What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In Cobb County, Ga., near Atlanta, the threat of punishment did not keep scores of Walton High School students from standing in silence on the football field for 170 seconds. A school district spokesman did not respond to a request for comment on what would happen to the students.Noelle Ellerson Ng, associate executive director for policy and advocacy for AASA, the association of the nation’s superintendents, said that schools had to balance the First Amendment rights of students with their other responsibilities, including safety.Indeed, several protests were canceled because of threats of the same kind of violence the students were demonstrating against. A demonstration at Broughton High School in Raleigh, N.C., was called off when the principal learned of what she later described as “a false rumor of a threat and a post on social media that caused unnecessary fear among our school community.”Reporting was contributed by Jess Bidgood, Julie Bosman, Sydney Ember, Dana Goldstein, Anemona Hartocollis, Sean Keenan, Nick Madigan, Jennifer Medina, John Peragine, Rick Rojas, Stephanie Saul, Nate Schweber, Mitch Smith, Kate Taylor, Julie Turkewitz and Elizabeth Williamson.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementIn the best circumstances, the familiarity of the crime genre can provide an opportunity for a filmmaker to flex their point of view, but the direction, by Preston A. Whitmore II, seems hampered by either a lack of resources or a lack of interest. The camera lingers on expensive cars, but club scenes appear threadbare. Quadir and his rivals are supposedly the toughest high rollers in the game, but their virility is primarily conveyed through their conspicuously manicured beards. Among the actors, Vivica A. Fox commands a cameo appearance with an authority and charisma that outweighs any of the movie’s leads — including Mr. Short’s Quadir. And Nelsan Ellis, in one of his last film roles, is underutilized as Quadir’s cutthroat second-in-command. To its detriment, “True to the Game” tries to reform kingpins before it maximizes on its own investments.Rated R for gun violence, drug trade, nudity and general over-earnestness. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorIn the wake of this week’s devastation in Las Vegas, it is important to remember that this kind of headline-grabbing mass shooting constitutes only a tiny fraction of the gun murders in our country. There were over 8,000 gunshot homicides in 2014, according to the F.B.I.’s most recent calculations, and gun violence is the first and second leading cause of death for African-American and Latino males between ages 15 and 34.Many have thrown up their hands in despair over these numbers, but the good news is that proven strategies to protect people from being murdered by firearms do exist. The bad news: They’re tragically underutilized, for reasons that we suspect have to do with a dismissive national attitude toward the areas where most acts of violence are committed.While movies, television and news outlets often give the impression that entire cities and neighborhoods are filled with thugs, criminals and killers, the reality is that those responsible for a majority of shootings represent a tiny percentage of the residents of any given city. In response to this fact, effective gun violence reduction strategies adopt a highly targeted, data-based approach in which the small number of individuals most at risk for shooting (and being shot) are provided with individualized programs of support and pressure to lay down their guns. To this end, law enforcement officials, clergy members, community leaders, social service providers and mentors who have themselves escaped violent lifestyles work in partnership with one another to help these individuals turn their lives around.Part of the beauty of this approach is that unlike tactics such as “stop and frisk” policing, these strategies do not eat away at already fractured relationships between law enforcement and communities of color. Instead, they harness the leadership and experience of the people who live in and understand these communities. Unlike the national gun violence prevention policy efforts, which tend to be led by progressive white groups and individuals, they ensure that those who are directly affected — mostly people of color — decide how peacemaking and anti-violence initiatives are carried out.Given the positive results, many astutely ask why these approaches have not been implemented more widely. The central answer is that the high death tolls in urban communities of color have proved to be socially and politically acceptable to mainstream America. For some reason, while mass shootings like the one we saw in Las Vegas are widely seen as symptomatic of a “national” problem, the continuing scourge of killings in our cities isn’t. The result is that neither Democratic nor Republican Justice Departments have funded these types of violence reduction strategies on a large scale.Absent a targeted investment strategy from the federal government, some local communities have taken on the challenge for themselves. In most cases, this has been made possible through relatively small reallocations of city or county funds. Police departments in urban areas often account for large percentages of city budgets but end up spending more time and resources trying to solve murders rather than working to prevent them. The RAND Corporation estimates that a single murder costs the community over $8 million in court, police, hospital, incarceration and other expenditures. Even the most fiscally conservative among us can agree that a $1 million to $2 million investment at the city or county level would more than pay for itself with even minimal homicide decreases.But even in cases in which cities have re-prioritized their funding and seen significant decreases in homicides, the strategy has been vulnerable to changing political winds. A new police chief, a new mayor or even the infighting of community-based organizations can disrupt the fragile political equilibrium that supports the work. So, what we have found is that focused and relentless community organizing is vital to helping ensure that the most vulnerable communities are able to demand the most effective strategies for keeping their neighborhoods safe — regardless of who is in office. To that end, we work with the clergy, youth, parents of murdered sons and daughters, police departments and government officials in cities and counties around the country to ensure that effective, lifesaving strategies are in place.It would be one thing if the solution to gun violence in our country were as elusive as the cure for cancer. But that’s not the case. The effective solutions exist and are simply not being funded or supported. While the left and the right continue to argue about gun control and gun rights, it would be refreshing to see some bipartisan support at the federal, state and local levels for programs that can get results right now, because in cities across our country, gun murders every bit as tragic as the ones that took place in Las Vegas are happening every day.Michael McBride is the national director of the PICO Live Free Campaign. Antonio Cediel is the campaign manager of PICO Network Urban Strategies. Amber Goodwin is the director of the Community Justice Reform Coalition. Ciera Walker is the executive director of Live Free Chicago.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementEvery so often in “The Dark Tower,” you catch a glimpse of what might have been: the might-have-been narrative ambition, the might-have-been pop mythology, the might-have-been genre assemblage. Based — loosely seems altogether too generous a word — on the Stephen King series, the movie is an unappealing hash of moviemaking clichés that, after much scurrying and blathering, devolves into a generic shoot’em-up. About the only thing holding it together is Idris Elba, whose irrepressible magnetism and man-of-stone solidity anchors this mess but can’t redeem it.Mr. Elba plays the otherworldly Roland, whose name suggests the Arthurian legend with knights and so forth. Onscreen, though, Roland basically points, shoots and serves as an overqualified babysitter for Jake (Tom Taylor), a 14-year-old with psychic powers (he “shines” à la “The Shining”) who lives here and now on what Roland calls Keystone Earth. Roland, by contrast, lives in Mid-World, an incoherent realm of foggy woods, digital boogeymen, cinematic allusions, slavering nods to Mr. King’s voluminous oeuvre and some geological formations that may cause you to uselessly flash on images from John Ford westerns. (The movie was partly shot in the Cederberg Mountains in South Africa.)The title refers to a mysteriously woo-woo, sky-piercingly tall spire that somehow holds both the universe’s various worlds and its monstrous threats in check. Walter wants to destroy the dark tower; Roland intends to protect it. Jake, who tends to look as confused as the audience may feel, doesn’t yet have a mission, though giving this twerp a purpose — a kind of wee hero’s journey (“Surrender, Jake”!) — seems to be the endgame. It’s a default solution, and reads like a cop-out. After all, if Stephen King hands you a complex fiction that turns pulpy tropes into a dense mythology with its own language and heavyweight heroes like Roland, wouldn’t you run with at least some of it?Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byLettersTo the Editor:Politics is the art of the possible, and Bret Stephens’s suggestion of repeal is not possible. However, it may be possible to replace the Second Amendment in a way that clarifies both the right of Americans to own guns and the powers of the government to regulate that right. It could read as follows:“The right of individuals to keep and bear arms consistent with the purpose of self-defense shall not be infringed. Congress and the states shall have the power to regulate the possession, ownership, sale, production and transportation of arms and ammunition, provided that such regulations do not infringe the right of individuals to keep and bear arms consistent with the purpose of self-defense.”Advocates of gun control would support this amendment because it clarifies that the government has authority to regulate gun ownership. Advocates of gun owners’ rights might support the amendment because it enshrines their right to own guns for self-defense.If we can get both groups on board, we can make this happen, and we can begin the work of making America safer.To the Editor:Mr. Stephens is correct that the N.R.A.’s influence is not limited to the money it spends on behalf of politicians. But he’s wrong to suggest that the N.R.A.’s political spending is “paltry” — and that it doesn’t make a difference. It does.DANIEL LERMAN, WASHINGTONTo the Editor:When it was reported that the Las Vegas shooter had multiple guns acquired legally, one thought came to mind. There should be a national database of gun sales so that when a person goes to buy a gun, he cannot take possession of it until the database is viewed.Obviously, criteria that raise a red flag would have to be established — number purchased over a period of time, type of guns, etc. (I leave this to the experts.) I know that such a database would not prevent these atrocities completely, but I think it would make them harder to carry out.SAUL EISENSTAT, CARMEL, CALIF.To the Editor:In all the news coverage of the Las Vegas shooting, where is any footage from the hotel’s own security cameras to confirm the single-shooter theory? If this were a teenager robbing a corner store, the television and the internet would be blasting as many videos from surveillance cameras as possible.STEFAN SALINAS, SAN FRANCISCOAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byLetterTo the Editor:That correlation also largely held true for campus violence in those states. From the 2001-02 school year through the 2015-16 school year, 64 percent of college shootings occurred in Southern states with weak gun laws. Georgia already ranks second in total college-related shootings with 13. Arkansas, with four incidents, will likely see an increase with its new campus carry law, according to research.Parents looking at colleges should take note: Campus carry laws make students less safe, not more secure.RICHARD ABORN, NEW YORKThe writer is president of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byAccording to subsequent studies, those polls substantially underestimated the number of Democratic white working-class voters — many of whom are culturally conservative — and overestimated the white college-educated Democratic electorate, a far more culturally liberal constituency.“The short answer is that the exit polls are wrong,” Matthew DeBell, a senior scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences, emailed me. He continued:In November 2016, 31.9 percent of adult US citizens had college degrees, according to the Current Population Survey. There were 138.8 million votes. To reach 50 percent of all voters, the turnout rate among college grads would have to have been 97 percent. This doesn’t pass the laugh test; no credible study has ever found turnout rates that high.According to Pew, this noncollege white 33 percent makes up a larger bloc of the party’s voters than the 28 percent made up of racial and ethnic minorities without degrees. It is also larger than the 12 percent of Democratic voters made up of racial and ethnic minorities with college degrees.In sum, Pew’s more precise survey methods reveal that when Democrats are broken down by education, race and ethnicity, the white working class is the largest bloc of Democratic voters and substantially larger than the bloc of white college-educated Democratic voters.The Pew study, in contrast, found that the white working class cast 44 percent, or 60.1 million votes, of all the 2016 votes for president — 13.5 million more votes than in the Edison Research exit polls.At the same time, Pew found that whites with college degrees made up 30 percent of the total electorate, not the 37 percent reported in the exit polls. In other words, Pew found that white working-class voters outnumbered white college voters among all voters, while the exit polls reported just the opposite.These numbers have powerful ramifications for both Democrats and Republicans preparing for the 2018 and 2020 elections.The Center for American Progress study by Rob Griffin, Ruy Teixeira and John Halpin foundthat exit polls radically overestimated the share of white college-educated voters and radically underestimated the share of white non-college-educated voters. While the exit polls claimed that white college graduates actually outnumbered non-college-educated white voters at the polls in 2016, 37 to 34 percent, CAP’s data indicate a vastly different story: White college graduates were only about 29 percent of voters, while their non-college-educated counterparts far outdistanced them at 45 percent of voters.Edison exit polls taken on Nov. 8 had Clinton failing to carry college-educated whites, losing them to Trump (49-45). Pew found that she did in fact win these voters, decisively carrying white college grads, 55-38.According to the November exit polls, half of the entire 2016 electorate of all races had college degrees; Pew found that such well-educated voters were a much smaller 37 percent.“We are all circling around the absolute truth, but we are all using methodologies that have their problems,” he said. Asked if he thought Pew raised legitimate questions about the exit polling, especially on the shares of college and noncollege voters, Lenski said that all surveys “have their errors,” adding that there “are sampling errors, nonresponse errors.”Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, specializes in political polling. The major problem with exit polls, he wrote in an email, is thatit is very difficult to weight an exit poll to the target population, especially on the night of the election. The reason is that we don’t know yet what the electorate’s demographics will be when the voting is happening. The best that exit pollsters can do is record the approximate age, race, and gender of people who refuse to take the survey (based on what the exit pollster thinks they look like), but this only allows them to weight on three variables, and these factors aren’t even measured very precisely.The problems of the Edison exit polls are widely recognized in the political science community, but rarely discussed in the media. Robert Y. Shapiro, a political scientist at Columbia, noted that thebiases in the exit polls before they are weighted for the actual vote are well known — they have overrepresented Democratic voters and also now also the better educated who are more likely to vote Democratic.Christopher Achen, a political scientist at Princeton, wrote me:The exit polls have traditionally overrepresented college grads, and even more dramatically postgrads, probably because less-educated people are less inclined to respond to the interviewers unless they are particularly enthusiastic about a candidate and want to say so.He added that “when I read the Pew report, I thought it was very likely right.”Ted Brader, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, also emailed:the issue with the education distribution is that exit polls could provide, at best, a representative sample of those who turn out to vote, not a representative sample of the voting eligible US population.Such Election Day polling Brader wrote, is “intended for specific purposes that may not make them even a very good representative sample of those who voted.” Instead, Brader argued, exit polls are “organized principally by news organizations who want to be able to make election night ‘calls’ of winners as soon as they can, and also need to fill the airtime those evenings with commentary by talking heads.” The primary goal of exit polls, thus, “is not to provide a representative portrait of the whole electorate.”Because of their limitations, Brader wrote, “social scientists rarely turn to exit polls to study voting behavior.”Cohn argued that the exit polls overestimated “Trump’s support among well-educated white voters” and thatthere is no question that the exit polls underestimate the number of white working-class voters, especially older ones, by a considerable amount.Cohn observed that errors result from “an odd methodological quirk in exit polling” that “winds up biasing the rest of the survey because the exit polls are weighted to match the actual result of a far less educated country.” The net effect:The exit poll overestimates Republican support among most demographic groups, including well-educated white voters, and it overestimates the number of voters from Democratic-leaning voting blocs, like young, nonwhite and well-educated voters.Assuming this critique of the exit polls is correct, what are the implications for Democrats and Republicans?For Democrats, the Pew and CAP calculations suggest that because the noncollege white vote remains highly significant, the party and its candidates need to prevent any further erosion in this constituency that went so strongly for Trump.The corollary for Republicans is that the party, already behind in the popular vote, cannot afford to suffer continued losses among college-educated white voters, especially college-educated women. Pew found by 2017, a year into the Trump presidency:Voters who have completed college make up a third of all registered voters. And a majority — 58 percent — of all voters with at least a four-year college degree now identifies as Democrats or leans Democratic, the highest share dating back to 1992. Just 36 percent affiliate with the Republican Party or lean toward the G.O.P.This danger has become more acute, according to the Pew study:The share of women identifying as Democrats or leaning Democratic is up 4 percentage points since 2015 and is at one of its highest points since 1992.At the same time, though, Trump appears to be strengthening Republican support among noncollege whites:Voters with no college experience have been moving toward the GOP: 47 percent identify with or lean toward the Republican Party, up from 42 percent in 2014.The Pew and CAP studies received relatively little publicity compared to the massive coverage of the exit polls, raising the question of how much the political community will adjust to the conflicting data.Michael McDonald, a political scientist at the University of Florida who studies the intricacies of polling, is not optimistic:In real time on election night, the exit polls set a narrative, and for a long time there is no other data that changes that narrative, and that narrative solidifies into place and it’s really hard to get past it.Polling that provides an inaccurate picture of the electorate does more than undermine partisan strategy and media analysis. Trevor Tompson, vice president of NORC (formerly the National Opinion Research Center) at the University of Chicago, emailed me:The overrepresentation of college-educated voters, and especially those with postgraduate degrees, has long been a known issue with the in-person exit poll.He then added:The bottom line is we need to have much better data for the health of our democracy.For Democrats, these questions are a matter of competitive survival.Teixeira of the Center for American Politics and William Galston of The Brookings Institution, two longtime Democratic strategists, suggest different but complementary directions in which to take the Democratic Party going forward.“No issue has done more than immigration to feed populism, and finding a sustainable compromise would drain much of the bile from today’s politics,” Galston writes. He continues:Defenders of liberal democracy should acknowledge that controlling borders is a legitimate exercise of sovereignty, and that the appropriate number and type of immigrants is a legitimate subject for debate. Denouncing citizens concerned about immigration as bigots ameliorates neither the substance nor the politics of the problem. There’s nothing illiberal about the view that too many immigrants stress a country’s capacity to absorb them, so that a reduction or even a pause may be in order.she would have carried, with robust margins, the states of Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Iowa, as well as Florida and Ohio. In fact, if Clinton could simply have reduced the shift toward Donald Trump among these voters by one-quarter, she would have won.In Alabama’s special Senate election, Doug Jones, the winning Democrat, would have lost if he had not made substantial inroads with the white working class, Teixeira argued:Without the hefty swing among the white non-college population, particularly women, there is no way Jones would have won the state, or even come close.Teixeira concluded:There is no way around it — if Democrats hope to be competitive in Ohio and similar states in 2020, they must do the hard thing: find a way to reach hearts and minds among white non-college voters.In many respects, these two groups of white voters see the world very differently. For example, 54 percent of college-educated whites think that America’s culture and way of life have improved since the 1950s; 62 percent of white working-class Americans think that it has changed for the worse. Sixty-eight percent of working-class whites, but only 47 percent of college-educated whites, believe that the American way of life needs to be protected against foreign influences. Sixty-six percent of working-class whites, but only 43 percent of college-educated whites, say that discrimination against whites has become as big a problem as discrimination against blacks and other minorities. In a similar vein, 62 percent of working-class whites believe that discrimination against Christians has become as big a problem as discrimination against other groups, a proposition only 38 percent of college educated whites endorse.This brings us to the issue of immigration. By a margin of 52 to 35 percent, college-educated whites affirm that today’s immigrants strengthen our country through their talent and hard work. Conversely, 61 percent of white working-class voters say that immigrants weaken us by taking jobs, housing, and health care. Seventy-one percent of working-class whites think that immigrants mostly hurt the economy by driving down wages, a belief endorsed by only 44 percent of college-educated whites. Fifty-nine percent of working-class whites believe that we should make a serious effort to deport all illegal immigrants back to their home countries; only 33 percent of college-educated whites agree. Fifty-five percent of working-class whites think we should build a wall along our border with Mexico, while 61 percent of whites with BAs or more think we should not. Majorities of working-class whites believe that we should make the entry of Syrian refugees into the United States illegal and temporarily ban the entrance of non-American Muslims into our country; about two-thirds of college-educated whites oppose each of these proposals.Opinions on trade follow a similar pattern. By a narrow margin of 48 to 46 percent, college-educated whites endorse the view that trade agreements are mostly helpful to the United States because they open up overseas markets while 62 percent of working-class whites believe that they are harmful because they send jobs overseas and drive down wages.It is understandable that working-class whites are more worried that they or their families will become victims of violent crime than are whites with more education. After all, they are more likely to live in neighborhoods with higher levels of social disorder and criminal behavior. It is harder to explain why they are also much more likely to believe that their families will fall victim to terrorism. To be sure, homegrown terrorist massacres of recent years have driven home the message that it can happen to anyone, anywhere. We still need to explain why working-class whites have interpreted this message in more personal terms.The most plausible interpretation is that working-class whites are experiencing a pervasive sense of vulnerability. On every front — economic, cultural, personal security — they feel threatened and beleaguered. They seek protection against all the forces they perceive as hostile to their cherished way of life — foreign people, foreign goods, foreign ideas, aided and abetted by a government they no longer believe cares about them. Perhaps this is why fully 60 percent of them are willing to endorse a proposition that in previous periods would be viewed as extreme: the country has gotten so far off track that we need a leader who is prepared to break some rules if that is what it takes to set things right.The bottom line, as the 2016 election amply demonstrated, is that if the Democratic Party does not take the bull by the horns, someone else will.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byOver the next six months, Democratic voters will be asked again and again whether their party’s candidates should hew to the center or move to the left.“Every Democrat, like every American, should support a woman’s right to make her own choices about her body and her health,” Perez said in a statement. “That is not negotiable and should not change city by city or state by state.” Perez later backed off.No matter who won, the district was expected to stay in Democratic hands in the general election.The more significant election in the Democrats’ strategic debate was the widely publicized special election victory last week of Conor Lamb, a moderate Democrat, in a mostly white, working-to-middle class western Pennsylvania congressional district.Lamb’s success in flipping a hard-core Republican electorate placed the choice facing Democrats running for president and those running for House and Senate in swing districts and states front and center: Does the path to victory lie in mobilizing the liberal base — by taking explicitly left-wing stands on immigration, as well as gun rights, universal health care, the minimum wage, racial justice and so on?Or is the widespread hatred of Donald Trump — at least among Democrats — sufficient to turn out progressive and minority voters, which would make undecideds the constituency that must be more actively wooed?Lamb pointedly strayed from Democratic orthodoxy on the Second Amendment, minimum wage and Trump’s steel and aluminum tariffs. His willingness to break with his party on those issues was crucial to his victory. As a decorated veteran, Lamb muted Democratic liabilities on military issues.By winning a district that Trump had carried by 20 percentage points, Lamb set off a national debate.There are a lot of Conor Lambs out there. Very early in the election cycle, Democrats recruited candidates with nontraditional backgrounds, especially in the military, who would appeal to voters in red districts.“The real message of Lamb’s campaign basically boiled down to this: ‘Look at what a fine young normal white fellow I am!’ ” Moser wrote. The “clamor for centrism,” according to Moser, risksdeflating the Resistance, turning off nonwhite voters, and dampening the turnout that Democrats should be able to expect in November, given the level of Trump animus across the country.This intraparty struggle will not be resolved on the merits. It will be hammered out by strategists and candidates over the next two and a half years and will ultimately be decided by Democratic primary voters. The evidence suggests that the balance of power among these voters is shifting to the left.In 1976, conservative Democrats were a significant force within the party, making up 27 percent of its supporters. By 1992, their share fell to 24 percent, still a factor to be reckoned with, providing a crucial source of support to Bill Clinton.By 2012 — the last year for which the authors have data — conservative Democrats had been marginalized in primaries, reduced to 7 percent.Over the latter third of the 20th century, Hill and Tausanovitch write,conservatives sorted into the Republican primary, liberals sorted into the Democratic primary, and centrists began turning out at somewhat lower rates in primary elections.These trends are illustrated in the accompanying graphics for 1976, 1992 and 2012. Each chart breaks the electorate into deciles: the first decile, on the left, is the most liberal; the tenth, on the right, the most conservative.I asked Tausanovitch what the implications were for moderate Democrats looking at 2018 and 2020:Clearly the Democratic primary electorate is more extreme in recent elections than in 1992. This appears to be the result of party sorting: liberals are more likely to be Democrats, and conservatives are more likely to be Republicans than in the past.If primary voters choose the candidate that most closely reflects their views, then there isn’t much hope for a more moderate Democrat.There are a substantial number of Democrats, especially among party officials, activists and consultants, who believe that candidates, especially at the presidential level, need to stake out centrist positions and avoid the perception of being in lock step with liberal interest groups.It means that being a calm, thoughtful and polite moderate is a winning strategy once more.Glickman and his centrist allies are, however, likely to be drowned out by the vociferous opposition to this idea.Bartels determined that Democrats are close to united in their support of an activist government that reduces the gap between rich and poor, regulates the environment and insures access to health care.Still, according to Bartels, cultural issues sow discord among Democrats. While more than a quarter of Democratic voters, 26.3 percent, are “closer to the Republicans than to their fellow Democrats” on cultural attitudes, nearly three quarters of Democrats, 73.9 percent, are more liberal on cultural issues.In an email, Bartels described these culturally liberal Democrats as:relatively more enthusiastic about atheists, gays and lesbians, and Muslims; more negative about Fox News, Walmart, and Christians; more willing to rely on “experts”; less likely to say that “anyone who is willing to work hard can still achieve the American dream”; more likely to deny that “the interests of ethnic and racial minority groups often conflict with those of the white majority”; less “authoritarian” (as measured by questions about child-rearing), further to the left in their ideological self-placements, and more pro-choice on abortion.According to Bartels, Democrats who are most firmly culturally liberal are overwhelmingly white.I exchanged emails with a Democratic consultant who has played a prominent role in presidential, Senate and House elections. He asked to remain anonymous in order to be more candid.The first question I posed was: Could Lamb — who did not face a primary — have won the seat if the contest had been held in 2016, during a general election? The answer was no:We know that PA-18 was not winnable in a year with Hillary at the top of the ticket. Democrats did not win any seat with the demographic profile of this one anywhere in the country in 2016 — save for handful of longtime incumbents.How about 2020? Could a centrist like Bill Clinton get the nomination?I’d say the answer is “no.” I think the politics of the Democratic Party have changed significantly since that time and while it may not be the MOST liberal candidate who wins the nomination, all viable candidates will have to pass a certain threshold of liberal-ness.One of the best case studies of center-left intraparty schism can be seen in the upcoming May 22 runoff election for the Democratic nomination in the 7th Congressional District in Texas — upscale suburban Houston.She is a Washington insider, who begrudgingly moved to Houston to run for Congress. In fact, she wrote in Washingtonian magazine, “I’d rather have my teeth pulled out without anesthesia” than live in Texas. As of January 2018, she claimed Washington, D.C. to be her primary residence in order to get a tax break.The district has been in Republican hands for 52 years, since George H.W. Bush first won the seat in 1966. In the 2016 election, however, Hillary Clinton beat Trump there, 49-47, abruptly putting the 10-term Republican incumbent, John Culberson, high on the Democrats’ target list.To bring this full circle, the upscale 7th District in Texas and the downscale 18th District in Pennsylvania effectively represent the dilemma of a party increasingly dominated by cultural liberals.In Texas, that may not prove a liability. Both Moser and Fletcher are on the left on predominantly cultural issues like immigration, gun rights and gay rights. Those positions are clearly becoming more acceptable among affluent, college-educated voters, a constituency in which Democrats have been making steady gains.It is in less well-to-do places like Conor Lamb’s Pennsylvania 18 — where 32.9 percent have a college degree or higher and the median household income of $58,600. Among Lamb’s constituents, cultural liberalism is, consequently, a liability — even fatal, electorally speaking.To nominate candidates who, like Lamb, are equipped to win working and middle class swing districts in the general election will require Democratic primary voters to cast strategic rather than ideological ballots — focusing on who can prevail in November, in 2018 but also in 2020. And, perhaps more to the point, Democratic donors will have to decide whether they can back candidates who agree with them 80 percent but not 99 percent of the time.At a moment when Trump has exacerbated polarization, persuading leaders and voters on the left flank of the Democratic Party to think tactically about the 2020 presidential primaries is crucial but problematic. Insofar as Democrats place a higher priority on purity than viability, they may be risking an indeterminate extension of the Trump era.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisement“Their sole responsibility will be to fight gun crime in the city of Chicago,” said Special Agent Tim Jones of the A.T.F., the team’s commander. “Our hope is that with more agents here, there will be more cases recommended for prosecution.”AdvertisementYet some in Chicago — where more than 760 people were killed last year, the most of any American city — were skeptical about how much influence a few dozen more investigators would have.AdvertisementChicago has a tense relationship with the president. Last year, a large protest scuttled Mr. Trump’s plans for a campaign rally in the city, where his surname is emblazoned on a downtown skyscraper. Mayor Rahm Emanuel has frequently criticized the president’s policies, while also saying at times that he would welcome more federal law enforcement.“Apparently this morning the president saw fit to take a brief break from attacking journalists on Twitter to attack one particular major U.S. city instead,” said a spokesman for Mr. Emanuel, Adam Collins. “If the president was as interested in taking action on public safety as he is in tweeting about it, we would have seen these resources months ago.”Chicago officials have long advocated stricter gun laws as a way to reduce shootings. A White House spokeswoman, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, speaking during an off-air briefing on Friday, was asked if part of the increase in crime was part of a larger “gun control problem” that could be dealt with through a change in firearms laws.“I think that the problem there, pretty clearly, it’s a crime problem,” she said. “I think that crime is probably driven more by morality than anything else. So I think this is a law enforcement issue.”But some here suggested that the president’s efforts were unlikely to yield significant results. Representative Danny K. Davis, Democrat of Illinois, said Mr. Trump should be increasing funding for social service programs, and cautioned, “I don’t think we’re going to be able to police ourselves out of the violence.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“The way you’d really do that is change people’s attitudes, change their minds, change the approach to life,” said Mr. Davis, whose teenage grandson was shot and killed in Chicago last year. “I don’t think the A.T.F. will do much in terms of the violence or the crime.”Shari Runner, the president of the Chicago Urban League, said the A.T.F. collaboration could be helpful, even though she said she had doubts about the president’s motives.If it “reduces the amount of guns flowing into the city, I’m all for it; let’s do it,” Ms. Runner said. “But it’s not because the president all of a sudden decided he was going to send the feds in. That’s a lot of hype and hyperbole.”AdvertisementIn February, the A.T.F. announced it would send more agents to Chicago. This week, police officials said the bureau was stationing a mobile ballistics lab in the city for part of the summer, when violence here traditionally peaks. But the practical effect remains unclear.“Six months ago, we made it clear that we would welcome additional federal support, and six months later, we appreciate the 20 new A.T.F. agents that are now arriving,” Mr. Collins said. “But the progress C.P.D. has made this year has happened without any of the new resources from the federal government we requested.”Through Friday, 1,360 shootings had been reported in the city, about 200 fewer than during the same period in 2016. The number of criminal homicides — 320 so far in 2017, compared with 322 at this point last year — has hardly changed.The A.T.F. and other federal law enforcement agencies already have large field offices in Chicago and have frequently partnered with the local police on investigations. Chicago police officials said the new unit would focus on preventing illegally possessed guns from flowing through the city and on targeting people repeatedly involved in gun crimes, both of which have long been cited as drivers of the violence. The unit is also intended to team up front-line law enforcement officers with state and federal prosecutors.Anthony Riccio, the chief of the Police Department’s Bureau of Organized Crime, said the new team would “significantly help our efforts to trace and stop the flow of illegal guns,” including over the Independence Day weekend, often one of the city’s most violent.But police leaders also acknowledged the unit’s limitations. Kevin Navarro, Chicago’s first deputy police superintendent, said that “preventing crime and reducing gun violence won’t be solved by one strategy.”Glenn Thrush contributed reporting from Washington.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byTrump’s purpose is clear. He seeks to weaken an institution that serves to constrain the abusive exercise of executive authority. He has initiated a gladiatorial contest pitting the principle of freedom of the press against a principle of his own invention: freedom from the press.Rosen observed that the history of right-wing attacks on the mediaThere is an underlying strategy to Trump’s critique of the media. Rosen continued:Trump is not just attacking the press but the conditions that make it possible for news reports to serve as any kind of check on power. Trump is the apotheosis of this history and its accelerant. He has advanced the proposition dramatically. From undue influence (Agnew’s claim) to something closer to treason (enemy of the people.) Instead of criticizing ‘the media’ for unfair treatment, he whips up hatred for it. Some of his most demagogic performances have been exactly that. Nixon seethed about the press in private. Trump seethes in public, a very different act.The media, on the other hand, enters the fray with significant disadvantages.The Trump administration, with a rhetoric that began during the campaign and burgeoned in the earliest days of Donald Trump’s presidency, has engaged in enemy construction of the press, and the risks that accompany that categorization are grave.Insofar as Trump succeeds in “undercutting the watchdog, educator, and proxy functions of the press,” they write, itleaves the administration more capable of delegitimizing other institutions and constructing other enemies — including the judiciary, the intelligence community, immigrants, and members of certain races or religions.Jones and Sun contend that in many respects, Trump is reminiscent of Richard M. Nixon:Nixon, like Trump, accused the media of being out to get him and predicted that the press would mischaracterize his public support or the reception he received. He believed the liberal media to be biased against him personally, maintaining that he had “entered the presidency with less support from the major publications and TV networks than any president in history” and that “their whole objective in life is to bring us down.”routinely reaffirmed to both the press and the public that he conceived of the press as central to democracy. Indeed, in his first speech to the public regarding the Watergate scandal, Nixon acknowledged that “the system that brought the facts to light and that will bring those guilty to justice” was a system that included “a vigorous free press.”Trump stands out, according to Jones and Sun, in that his administrationhas passed a threshold not approached by previous administrations in their tensions with the media. Trump is signaling — through his terminology, through his delegitimizing actions, and through his anticipatory undercutting — that the press is literally the enemy, to be distrusted, ignored, and excluded.In response to my email, Jones replied that “war has been declared, whether they (the media) like it or not.” She noted that the instincts of the pressmotivate it to want to call out the changing norms that it sees around it, and to defend the role of important democratic institutions when they are attacked. But when the press is itself one of those institutions, it finds itself a part of the story in ways that it is unaccustomed to being, and it has to weigh the potential loss of credibility that might come with an aggressive self-defense.“The best way for the press to react to Trump’s undemocratic behavior is to continue trying to do their jobs the best they can,” Ladd wrote. “The press is not perfect, but Trump’s bad behavior doesn’t change what they need to do.”Ladd specifically warned against “reacting to Trump by becoming more crusadingly anti-Trump.”If the media directly address the accusations of fake news, they ironically run the risk of dignifying the accusations. But if they ignore the accusations, they miss the opportunity to prove their professionalism to those who have grown skeptical.In the long term, Stone suggested, we could begin to remedy this problem if we improved civic education and encouraged a stronger defense of the media by politicians, especially Republicans — a prospect about which he is not optimistic.Of the media itself, however, Stone wrote:I don’t know that there’s really much they can do to defend themselves. Those who trust them will continue to trust them. Those who distrust them are unlikely to be brought around by anything they themselves are likely to say.Trump’s disdain for the First Amendment is an integral part of a much longer series of developments in which both parties have demonstrated a willingness to defy democratic norms, although the Republican Party has been in the forefront.For a quarter of a century, Republican officials have been more willing than Democratic officials to play constitutional hardball — not only or primarily on judicial nominations but across a range of spheres. Democrats have also availed themselves of hardball throughout this period, but not with the same frequency or intensity.Fishkin and Pozen cite the work of Mark Tushnet, a professor at Harvard Law School, to define constitutional hardball as “political claims and practices”that are without much question within the bounds of existing constitutional doctrine and practice but that are nonetheless in some tension with existing pre-constitutional understandings. Constitutional hardball tactics are viewed by the other side as provocative and unfair because they flout the ‘goes without saying’ assumptions that underpin working systems of constitutional government. Such tactics do not generally flout binding legal norms. But that only heightens the sense of foul play insofar as it insulates acts of hardball from judicial review.Republicans on the far right, in particular, Fishkin and Pozen write, have been willing to engage in constitutional hardball because they are drawn to “narratives of debasement and restoration,” which suggestthat something has gone fundamentally awry in the republic, on the order of an existential crisis, and that unpatriotic liberals have allowed or caused it to happen.The severity of the liberal threat, in the eyes of these conservatives, justifies extreme steps to restore what they see as a besieged moral order.In an email, Fishkin wrote:As with so many things about President Trump, it strikes me that he didn’t start the fire. He got into office because it was already burning and now he’s pouring on gasoline.In Fishkin’s view, Trump will do all he can to make the conflict between his party and the press “sharper and more intense, in the same way that he depends on and aims to intensify partisan polarization.”Pozen warned in an email:Accusations that the press has a political agenda can, perversely, help create an agenda which is then said to corroborate the accusations.to lock up one’s general election opponent, encouraging online hate mobs, lying constantly, attacking the press constantly, contradicting oneself constantly, undermining the very idea of truth are individually and in common potentially profound threats to the integrity and quality of our system of free expression.The question is whether the news media can mount an effective check on the exercise of power when the media itself has become an object of hatred for a large segment of the electorate.Rosen of N.Y.U. notes the cross pressures on the news media:I think our top journalists are correct that if they become the political opposition to Trump, and see themselves that way, they lose. But they have to go to war against a political style in which power gets to write its own story.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS